[00:00:01] Silicon Valley royalty, legendary investor Bill Gurley. >> Track record's incredible. >> The legend who backed Uber and Zillow, who's lived through every major tech cycle for over 25 years. >> You're not just a commentator, right? You've been an operator. >> I'd love to unlock this latent human potential. There's been no time in the history of the world where you can learn faster. You can increase your surface
[00:00:25] area for luck. I'm not a big fan of these dystopian narratives. The thing to do right now is to run as fast as you can. >> Please welcome Bill Gurley.
[00:00:45] >> It's good to be here again. Three years ago, I gave a talk on regulatory capture and this group was quite kind in how they reacted and how that video was promoted. And I'm very happy we got that word out into the public discourse. Obviously, today you hear it quite a bit. Um I have a different topic I'm going to talk to you about today. It's not I'm not going to talk about AI. Um it's a serious topic and so there might
[00:01:12] not be as many fun joke parts in it. Um but it's something that's been weighing on my mind for the past five or six years and I'm thankful that the team here allowed me to come to talk to you about it and I'm hopeful that we can have an impact by getting the word out on this as well. I'm going to start by talking to you about some catastrophes that have happened in the world and how humans normally respond to them. This is the
[00:01:37] Champlain Towers in Surfside, Florida. You may remember in June of 2021 when the building suddenly collapsed. 98 people died. What happened? There were design errors from the very beginning. There was poor maintenance schedule. And then the the board of the condominium did not listen to an inspection report that said they needed to take care of this. Three different things. That's kind of the institutional failure. The technical
[00:02:03] failure was different and you can see it here. This is a New York Times article. Hopefully they can push play so you can see it's a it's a 3D article. If if if they can't make it play, you'll have to watch it on your own. Here we go. But the reason I want you to see this isn't to talk about the details of exactly how this collapsed. It turned out the pool deck was exposed to salt water air, corroded. The pool deck
[00:02:29] collapsed into the basement which took out the structural columns and the building came down. But what I want you to take away from this is the New York Times and its investigative team had excruciating detail about how this happened which comes from doing primary investigative work. There were four other parallel investigations that happened. The NIST is the National Institute of Standards and Technology. After 9/11, they were
[00:02:56] assigned as a federal agency to go investigate what happened in a building collapse. These two individuals, Matheny Reimann and Bell, would spend five years on this. Alan Kilshimer is the wolf of building collapses. He's who you call when you want to figure out what happened. The town of Surfside hired him. Judge Randal would convene a grand jury in the state of Florida to investigate this and there were 17 victim lawsuits which got put
[00:03:23] under a single class. Croppen was the the defendant or the litigant and Hanzman was the judge that did that. All of these different groups were doing investigations on their own. Sometimes running into each other, sometimes helping each other out, but all trying to get at what caused the failure. One particularly heroic group was the Miami Herald. They had just gone through bankruptcy. They had a new executive editor named
[00:03:48] Monica Richardson. But they went after this hard. The beat reporter Alan Leibowitz, was on the scene within 2 hours. Sarah Blaskey would lead an investigative team. They would eventually find Don Lehman, who was a professor at the University of Washington, and she would join the team. Um they would have they would staff up to 37 people on this. They have a 3D uh model that's equally impressive to New York Times one, and they would
[00:04:14] deservedly win a Pulitzer Prize for the work that they did. Um when they won it, Monica Richardson, the executive editor, who also won an award for executive editor of the year from her peers, said, "We will continue to investigate the collapse to find answers to how this happened to ensure a tragedy like this never happens again." Now, finding the failure cause doesn't help if you don't prevent. This is a list of some of the changes that went
[00:04:41] into all the condominium rules in Florida, and thankfully multiple other states, especially coastal states, adopted them. So, you have change that causes prevention. That's what you want to have happen when these things happen. 737 Max crash. Unfortunately, there were two crashes, October 2018 and March 2019. For those of you don't know know what happened, let me give you the really short version. Airbus had come out with
[00:05:06] a plane that was incredibly fuel efficient, and they were starting to take share from Boeing. Boeing wanted to respond. If they built a new plane, it required tons of hours of teaching and training, and and that makes it harder to sell. So, they decided they would attach a fuel-efficient engine to an old plane, the 737. That's how you get the name 737 Max. The problem is the engine was too big, and they had to move it forward on
[00:05:33] the wing. When you move it forward on the wing, the plane is imbalanced. And and they had this problem during test flights when it would occasionally tip up. So, they wrote a piece of software, secret software called MCAS, MCAS, and they put it in there without telling anybody. And if if the sensor went off and told them the plane was tipping up, the autopilot would push it down. The poor pilot that was flying the
[00:05:57] Ethiopian Airways flight, his sensor malfunctioned. The The The software thought that the plane was tilting up and it pushed it into the ground. That's what happened. There were many people that investigated this. I call them the six searchers. The US government did a Senate commission, a House commission, and the DOJ went after it. KNKT is the Indonesian firm that are the Indonesian agency that had the right
[00:06:27] to inspect the black boxes. They could tell very quickly the pilot was fighting the autopilot. The press played a key role. Dominic Gates had followed Boeing for the Seattle Times for 16 years. He would win a Pulitzer for his work here. Peter Robison wrote a book called Flying Blind. You can tell why it would have that title. 57 whistleblowers sent letters into the Senate to tell on Boeing. The victims' families showed up and were ever-present
[00:06:54] and put pressure on Congress to make sure something happened. And the The head of the pilot union was very upset that that they had put this piece of software in there and not told the pilots. Boeing tried to come have a sit-down with the pilots' union and they secretly recorded what Boeing said and gave it to the press. And then when they wouldn't respond to Boeing's request, the pilots' union issued FOIA requests against Boeing. It's unheard
[00:07:22] of. Now, in these situations where you have six searchers, you also have blockers. And unfortunately, in this case, both Boeing and the FAA were being unhelpful in trying to find out what happened. Boeing initially accused the pilots of not being trained well enough. The FAA refused document requests to the Senate panel. And one thing I would tell you about these big organizations, when you put a spotlight on them,
[00:07:51] they can feel the weight of that spotlight, and they circle the wagons. I think part of it's institutional. I don't think they're necessarily evil. They're just they they have a sixth sense about how to respond when they're put on the spotlight that. Um the other thing that's interesting here is a lot of people came to think that Boeing and the FAA were working as one. Um Senator Ted Cruz, when he had the head of the FAA in front of in front of
[00:08:16] the Senate, literally accused him of being captured. There's our favorite word again. Um and he even said to him, "Sir, do you know you don't work for Boeing?" Um it one one of the real failures here in this case, 45 days after the first crash, almost everyone knew the MCAS software was at fault, and no one grounded the plane. Boeing didn't ground the plane, the FAA didn't ground the plane, and the second crash. I mean, the first crash should
[00:08:45] have never happened because that piece of software should have been identified, which would have required retraining, but the second crash should have really never happened. I wanted to share with you I don't want to go through this in detail, but these are the two different committees in the House and the Senate, and I just want to highlight that they were decidedly bipartisan. DeFazio was the head of the House Committee, very active. Ted Cruz
[00:09:08] and Wicker were super active. No one thought this was anything that should be partisan, nor should it be. It turns out the scientific community has a process they use when they want to do failure analysis. It's called CAPA, captive and preventive action. And there are there are five steps. You detect, you investigate, confirm root cause, correct, and prevent. And it's all about prevention. You want to stop this from
[00:09:32] happening again, but you can't skip root cause. That's a that's a requirement. You don't know how to fix it if you don't know exactly what happened. Um CAPA is required by law by the FDA and pharmaceuticals and medical device, the aerospace industry has regulations that require this type of process if you have a failure. Now, let's move on. Hurricane Katrina, 2005. Um Look at look at these stats. They're horrible. 1,800 deaths, 400,000 people
[00:10:02] displaced, damage $125 billion. What happened here? Well, the Army Corps of Engineers that built the levee want you to believe that the water went over the levees. But that's, you know, an an act of God, natural disaster. But this was only a hurricane, a category 3 level hurricane. What in fact happened was the levees gave way from underneath. They washed under. Um and that's what's unfortunate is this was a preventable
[00:10:30] accident as well. Um as with these others, you have searchers and blockers. The House had a had a commission, the Senate had a commission, the press played a key role. Mark Schleifstein and and John McQuaid um had written a series 3 years earlier about how this could happen. They would win two Pulitzers. I actually had a chance to talk with John about it. Um the NSF, the National Science Foundation cared so much about this they did a
[00:10:56] bake-off for to have another team doing investigation and these two professors from the University of California led that. And then the the state of Louisiana hired a team out of LSU. And they all investigated and I you know, I talked to John sometimes, once again, running into each other, sometimes blocking, sometimes sharing notes, but all and they all came to the exact same conclusion that this was a man-made
[00:11:18] error. The US Corps of Engineers is the one that built the levees and they naturally, as I talked about, are going to act as blockers. What's weird here is they asked the American Society of Civil Engineers if they would um join the investigation, join the internal investigation, they paid them a million dollars. Um and over time, they would just get kind of encapsulated inside the Army Corps and become blockers themselves.
[00:11:46] When this dust all settled, Raymond Seed, the uh professor from U Cal, he wrote a 42-page report to the ASCE explaining all the times that they blocked. That document's on the internet, you can go see it. Like 42 pages, that's a lot of blocking. Um the other thing that happened here that's great is prevention. Um these different investigations led to 90 recommendations. Those changes were made and the seawalls have held uh as $15
[00:12:13] billion seawalls have held now for uh 20 years, which is great. Let me move through a couple more real quickly. This is Fukushima. 2,200 deaths, 154,000 displaced, 200 billion in cleanup. Um what happened here is is pretty simple. The seawall in front of the nuclear plant was 5.7 m. The water went over the wall, took out the generators, the cores started to melt down, there was no way to cool them, and the disaster happened. Um
[00:12:46] there were internal documents that showed they expected tsunamis in a 30-year window to be in the 10 to 15-m range, and they buried the report. So, if you'd simply raised the wall, this never happened. But it didn't happen. And in a lot of these cases, there's a combination of a technical failure and an institutional failure. The technical failure is what happens, you know, to the product or the service or the building or the seawall. The
[00:13:12] institutional failure is why did the humans let that become a weak point here? Um as with the others, the searchers and blockers oppressed played a role. Martin Fackler would at the New York Times spent 20 years in the Tokyo bureau. He would be a Pulitzer finalist. Mr. Yoichi Mitsu took a third the third-place paper and added 20 investigators to his staff to go after this. Had a huge impact, won two awards. The Japanese citizens were out in force
[00:13:40] both protesting and filing claims. And just like the FAA and Boeing, TEPCO was the company running the power plant, NISA was the regulator, and they blocked and they and they blocked and they got in the way. And in fact, the failure was partially just a result of regulatory capture once again that they they weren't playing the right role of regulator and regulatee, they'd almost become friends. Now, the real hero of this story is a guy named
[00:14:09] Kiyoshi Oh Kurokawa. Um he was asked by the Japanese parliament to lead the first ever private investigation they've ever had in their country's history. And they had they had a lot of power. They they were told that no one on the committee could have any institutional connection to the regulator or the power company. They had the full authority to go after anybody in any way. And they had a ton of meetings. Here are some of
[00:14:35] the stats. Kurokawa, when he kicked this off, said he had three mandates that he wanted to adhere to. One, he cared about human safety. He didn't want it to be a battle about nuclear energy. Two, he said the investigation should definitely result in recommendations. And third, he knew the weight of this because of Three Mile Island and Chernobyl from a global perspective, and he cared about that. Now, interestingly,
[00:14:59] he's a medical doctor. He's not a nuclear physicist, but he led this this commission with a level of grace and professionalism that that makes him a hero from my perspective. All these searchers are heroes from my perspective. He would publish a report 7 months later. Interestingly, they chose to publish it in English first because they were worried about global transparency and how they were perceived. And in the
[00:15:25] in the first sentence he says "The accident at the power plant cannot be regarded as a natural disaster. It was profoundly man-made and it could have and should have been prevented." Powerful. One last one. This is the Challenger shuttle disaster. January 1986. I remember where I was. It was a Tuesday. I was in college. It was a long time ago. Um Everyone If you've seen the documentaries, you know what happened here. The O-rings on the solid rocket
[00:15:58] boosters weren't designed for cold. Turns out it was cold that morning in Florida and that flaw caused a problem. Unfortunately, the subcontractor that had worked on that piece tried to object the night before that they shouldn't launch and he got shut down. So, you have a technical failure and institutional failure once again. Now, I can talk about a lot of searches and blockers, but I'm just going to talk about one, Richard
[00:16:24] Feynman, who was already mentioned during the All-In conference this week. Um Richard Feynman to was a professor at Caltech. Um when when the shuttle Challenger blew up, Ronald Reagan created the Rogers Commission and they added mostly insiders. Neil Armstrong, they had astronauts, they had generals, they had people from Washington, people from NAS NASA executives. But, someone had the idea that they should put Feynman on
[00:16:53] there. And I think they wanted like a stamp of approval from a physicist. The good The good news is it made a lot of sense. He's one of the most famous scientists of all time. He won a Nobel Prize and he worked on the Manhattan Project. So, he had a lot of credibility. What they didn't know is he's fiercely independent, he's highly truth-seeking, and he has zero time for unnecessary diplomacy. They didn't know
[00:17:18] that was coming. Um He didn't want to do it. He said he hated Washington. I kind of get that. Um His wife talked him into it, but once he did it, he cleared his schedule. He took everything off his calendar for 6 months into the future. None of the other commission members did that. And he started doing investigation on his own before he ever went to Washington. He's like showing up at NASA facilities and like asking to meet with people. And
[00:17:44] when he got to Washington, none of the other members wanted to act that way. In fact, Neil Armstrong told him, you know, we just evaluate, we don't investigate. It was too late. He was already doing it. Now, three fun facts about this. Um First of all, there's a famous story, if you watch any of the documentaries, where Rogers runs into Neil Armstrong in the bathroom and says, "Feynman's being a real pain in the ass."