[00:15:25] in the first sentence he says "The accident at the power plant cannot be regarded as a natural disaster. It was profoundly man-made and it could have and should have been prevented." Powerful. One last one. This is the Challenger shuttle disaster. January 1986. I remember where I was. It was a Tuesday. I was in college. It was a long time ago. Um Everyone If you've seen the documentaries, you know what happened here. The O-rings on the solid rocket
[00:15:58] boosters weren't designed for cold. Turns out it was cold that morning in Florida and that flaw caused a problem. Unfortunately, the subcontractor that had worked on that piece tried to object the night before that they shouldn't launch and he got shut down. So, you have a technical failure and institutional failure once again. Now, I can talk about a lot of searches and blockers, but I'm just going to talk about one, Richard
[00:16:24] Feynman, who was already mentioned during the All-In conference this week. Um Richard Feynman to was a professor at Caltech. Um when when the shuttle Challenger blew up, Ronald Reagan created the Rogers Commission and they added mostly insiders. Neil Armstrong, they had astronauts, they had generals, they had people from Washington, people from NAS NASA executives. But, someone had the idea that they should put Feynman on
[00:16:53] there. And I think they wanted like a stamp of approval from a physicist. The good The good news is it made a lot of sense. He's one of the most famous scientists of all time. He won a Nobel Prize and he worked on the Manhattan Project. So, he had a lot of credibility. What they didn't know is he's fiercely independent, he's highly truth-seeking, and he has zero time for unnecessary diplomacy. They didn't know
[00:17:18] that was coming. Um He didn't want to do it. He said he hated Washington. I kind of get that. Um His wife talked him into it, but once he did it, he cleared his schedule. He took everything off his calendar for 6 months into the future. None of the other commission members did that. And he started doing investigation on his own before he ever went to Washington. He's like showing up at NASA facilities and like asking to meet with people. And
[00:17:44] when he got to Washington, none of the other members wanted to act that way. In fact, Neil Armstrong told him, you know, we just evaluate, we don't investigate. It was too late. He was already doing it. Now, three fun facts about this. Um First of all, there's a famous story, if you watch any of the documentaries, where Rogers runs into Neil Armstrong in the bathroom and says, "Feynman's being a real pain in the ass."
[00:18:06] Um The second thing is, he staged a stunt on live television. He found some material that was similar to the O-ring and and in front of everybody, he dipped it in his cold ice water in front of him and picked pulled it out and cracked it to show the failure. It infuriated the rest of the commission. And then lastly, when he submitted all his notes to the commission, they wrote a final report, they didn't They really kind of smoothed
[00:18:30] over everything and he was pissed. And so he called Rogers and said, "You know what? Take my name off of it." Of course, he'd already done the thing on TV. There's no way they could take their name off of it. They caved. Appendix F to the report is all of his notes included in their entirety. Now, why am I talking to you about all these catastrophes and searchers and blockers and heroes like Kurokawa and Feynman?
[00:18:55] Because I want to talk to you about COVID-19. In December of 2019, COVID-19 caused 15 million deaths, disrupted every life on the planet, and cost our globe 45 trillion dollars. It was particularly hard on children. You've read about learning loss. My kids were in high school and college and missed 3 years of the most formative years of your life. I never want to live through this thing again in my life. But guess what? For all the
[00:19:37] For all the other catastrophes, I told you what root cause is. Six years later, we don't know. So, forgive me if I'm unafraid of what some AI guy's chatbot is going to do to humanity when you can't tell me what this thing already did.
[00:20:01] My my my P second COVID is way higher than my P doom. And if their models are so smart, tell me what happened here. Let's get them working on this problem.
[00:20:21] I want to I want to put this in perspective. I've added up all the deaths and costs of the five catastrophes I taught walked through with you, and you get to 5,000 deaths and $349 billion. COVID is 3,000 times bigger than that. Feynman in one of the documentaries said someone was telling him he needed to be nicer, and he said, "But seven people died." If If you If you have to get through niceties and seek truth when seven
[00:20:48] people died, how are you supposed to behave when 15 million people die? I can take it even further. I add up all plane accidents, all hurricanes, all nuclear accidents, all building collapses, all space accidents. You still only get 1/3 of the way to what happened with COVID. We should want to know what happened here so we can stop this from happening again.
[00:21:15] Here's what didn't happen, and this is shocking because all these wonderful people, all these well-intended people did this in the other cases, which were much smaller, and they did it in a purposeful and meaningful way. There's no committed newsroom with over 30 investigators on COVID. None of the major papers did that. There was no Gates or Schles- Schlesinger or Flackerd, like a a dogged investigative reporter that had the backing of his
[00:21:40] newsroom going after this. No bipartisan Senate congressional committees, like you had in Katrina and 737 Max. You didn't have a standalone investigation with someone like Fineman or or or Kirakawa. Um there was no science-funded investigation. The The NIST and the NSF launched them in these other two cases. NIH didn't fund a third-party investigation here, and no massive victims' lawsuit to figure out what happened.
[00:22:08] So, what went wrong? I'm going to share some thoughts with you, and I I want you to be aware of a couple piece of information that I think are kind of new or new to be understood. Um but I and I want to make one one qualification. This has been bothering me for a long time. I've read a ton. Um I I'm sure there are people that are smarter than me on this, but I'm got to be top 1% in terms of how much information I've consumed.
[00:22:31] The first thing I would tell you is these five people were relied on as experts. You know the first two, Francis Collins, Anthony Fauci. Peter Daszak runs something called the EcoHealth Alliance. It's a nonprofit that did virology research. Jeremy Farrar was ahead of the Welcome Trust that funded a lot of this stuff and went on to work at the WHO. And then Ralph Baric is the top virologist in the US at the University
[00:22:56] of North Carolina. What I'm here to tell you is they weren't experts, they were blockers. They acted exactly like FAA and Boeing and NASA did in these other situations. And I'm going to give you four reasons why I know they're blockers. First, they're virol- virology insiders. So, as I said, there's going to be a natural instinct to circle the wagon when someone shines a spotlight on you. Two, they led a misinformation campaign
[00:23:22] to take us off the lead and to tell us not to search. I'm going to tell you about that in a second. Three, they were all outspoken gain-of-function advocates prior to COVID coming along. And if you don't know what gain-of-function is, it's when you take a virus and you make it intentionally more dangerous to animals or humans. They felt that that was smart to do. Obama had outlawed it. They were constantly promoting to try and make it
[00:23:48] more happen more often. Fauci in 2011 wrote an article in the Washington Post, an editorial, where he said the pros outweigh the cons. Now, if you talk to any behavioral psychologist, if you've told the world we should definitely do this and the pros outweigh the cons, there's zero chance you can be impartial when it comes to figuring out what happened because to go home at night and think that something you did contributed
[00:24:11] to the death of 15 million people would be impossible to go to bed. Your brain's much more likely to trick you into just thinking it didn't happen. You wouldn't be allowed on a jury if you had that kind of uh bias. And the fourth reason, and the most important reason I know they're blockers, is cuz they didn't search. I tell you they stopped searching, but they never started searching. And they should have been searching.
[00:24:34] They should still be searching. There are people that did search. They're not at large institutions. The two on the bottom, DRASTIC is a loosely affiliated group of scientists that came together and share information. They have a website. You should follow them. Um it's like 20 Nick Sherleys that are all virologists or scientists. Um US Right to Know is a non-profit that's filed the majority of the FOIA claims here and um, you can donate to
[00:25:04] them. I have. But, I want to tell you about these five heroes. They're heroes of mine that have been actively trying to find out what happened from the very beginning. Alina Chan was one of the first molecular biologist that that realized that the virus looks like it was designed for humans. She wrote a book with Matt Ridley. And here's some really good news. In the past couple of years, the New York Times has published
[00:25:26] two of her op-eds. I would rather it be the investigative team at the New York Times, but it's a start. They're really good. Read both of them. Katherine Eban was the first person to really stick their neck out and say, "We're not looking at this the right way." She published an article oddly in Vanity Fair titled The Fight to Discover COVID Origins. And I I think the title's important because the fight was about
[00:25:50] the discovery process. Emily Kopp worked for US Right to Know. She may know more than anybody. She's been the one uncovering all of these documents. And we've been getting more and more documents each and every day, so we're learning more. Zeynep Tufekci is a professor at Princeton who also writes sometimes for the New York Times. I'm going to tell you something she did recently that I think is super important. And then
[00:26:13] Alison Young wrote a book called Pandora's Gamble that looks at all of the lab leak failures that have happened prior to COVID, which is an interesting and relevant data point to study if you want to consider whether or not that was part of the problem. These five women have been attacked for sticking their neck out. Some of them directly by the men on the previous slide. And I think that's completely unreasonable.
[00:26:39] Um, I think they're heroes.
[00:26:46] Now, there's two things I want to tell you about and then I'll and then I'll I'll wrap it up. There's two pieces of information you should know about. I said earlier that the five experts blockers had had created a misinformation campaign to take us off the lead. I think that's an understatement on what they created a highly successful misinformation campaign to convince everyone that lab that animal spillover was a decidedly
[00:27:15] determined cause of this and that anyone that considered a lab leak even thought about or asked a single question was a conspiracy theorist and they were successful at it. They leveraged the the scientific journal community which they understood. The proximal origins paper went out. Like this thing was written in like a week. There's no way you did an investigation. They just wanted to to to get it out there and then the
[00:27:40] Lancet had a similar one. These these papers have been cited over and over and over again. If you try and like go through Wikipedia, you just always end up going back to them. So they were highly successful. They also somehow made this thing partisan. Using the word conspiracy theory with Trump back I don't know how it happened but they were able to get people in their surveys and polls. People what do you think caused COVID? And if you're
[00:28:06] Democrat or Republican you have a different answer. That's nuts. Like there's no way that should be relevant in this discussion. Um Recently more and more of this information's come out and so you have um more more understanding of how they came to write these papers. Like and you can see inconsistencies between what they think and what they wrote. Um Zeynep put this on Twitter 45 days ago and I think she chose her words very
[00:28:33] carefully. She said incontrovertible proof of a conspiracy to cover up and deny the possibility it well may be a lab mishap orchestrated from the highest levels of the scientific establishment and a self-serving group of scientists who deliberately deliberately misled the public. Those are strong words. She put that up 45 days ago. It has 400,000 views and zero community notes, at least today. Maybe tomorrow it will have some.
[00:29:01] Um Katherine Eban was was more terse but equally opinionated. She calls it manufactured consensus. If you feel strongly, you think you know what happened in COVID, you need to understand that this happened. It took people off the scent. Three years after COVID, the DRASTIC team uncovered this document. It's called the DEFUSE proposal. Who's heard of the DEFUSE proposal? Raise your hand. This is nuts. Look, it's like three
[00:29:27] people. Okay? Um no major journals ever covered the DEFUSE proposal. It's um There was a survey of scientists who who they said, "Do you What do you think caused it?" If they said animal spillover, they said, "Have you heard of DEFUSE?" Only 70 Only 22% had. 78% said they'd never heard of it. What's the DEFUSE proposal? Three years after COVID, DRASTIC uncovered this document. You can go download it. It's real.
[00:29:54] Um it was a proposal by EcoHealth Alliance, Peter Daszak's company, to that connects the top virologist at Duke in North Carolina with the top virologist at Wuhan, the the bat lady, uh Shi Zhengli. And there's a proposal that they're going to insert a furin cleavage site at the S1 and S2 junction of a bat coronavirus because they think it'll make it more viral in animals. And it's in a document. I went to AI. I said, "Let's do a clean
[00:30:27] session AI." That means don't look at anything I've ever told you before. If I were interested in helping to solve the origin of COVID, and I was using the scientific principles of Kappa to guide me, how would I react to finding the DEFUSE proposal? Look at these answers. Direct investigative lead, highly critical, major investigative lead. Yes, that would be a high priority piece of evidence. Primary document evidence,
[00:30:50] highest tier evidence class. Most people don't know about this thing. And I I would make an assertion, had this document been exposed in January of 2020, we would have had a very different conversation back then. Um, but it wasn't. The searchers are aware of the document, Rand Paul is aware of the document. Hopefully now you're all aware of the document. One other thing I I I think I need to say, um, if you ask these AI bots what would you
[00:31:18] do next in your Kappa profit process, they say you would go after documents at Duke University and University of North Carolina. And the searchers have been doing that. Unfortunately, the University of North Carolina and the state of North Carolina are blockers. They're refusing to deliver the documents. And I would encourage, if any of you have connections to UNC or know anyone on the board, I would encourage
[00:31:41] you to make them think about whatever they're protecting and whether that's more important than preventing the next one of these. Um, if you want to learn more about this, Matt Ridley just did an interview last March with Jay Bhattacharya at NIH. It's a great way to catch up on everything people have been learning. And as we look forward, and this is where I'd love your help, let's support the searchers. We have to
[00:32:05] find a root cause to this thing. We don't want this to happen again. Um, I can't tell you that I speak for science like Anthony Fauci did, but I can tell you I speak for scientific inquiry. There's no one that should be telling you you can't search. That makes no sense whatsoever. You're not a bad person if you search, you're a good person if you search. Um, you have to move through and around the blockers. I
[00:32:30] don't think you want to attack the blockers. I think Rand Paul is making a mistake making it about prosecution. We should make it about root cause and prevention. Um this isn't partisan, it should have never been. If your view on what caused COVID is because of who you vote for, please reconsider that. Um I would ask the newsrooms to dive in, be like Monica Richardson, and then let's put a truly independent commission together. Let's
[00:32:55] find our Kure and our Fineman. I'm going to leave you with a quote. I'm way over time. I'm going to leave you with a quote that's attributed Plato that sums up what I've been thinking here.
[00:33:09] We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark. The real tragedy in life is when men are afraid of the light. Thank you. >> Wow. I got to ask you a question. Stay out here. No, no, stay out here. Stay out here. I'm going to do a question. Uh another standing ovation here. Um Bill Wow. Uh you put a tremendous amount of effort into this. Uh we've known each other for 30 years. I've seen you emotional I think two