[00:14:40] 2010 we did $3 billion deals in a row. Um we bought Blue Coat we took it private Deltek we took private we bought Digital Insight from Intuit when those worked then we did a $2.5 billion deal that became Dynatrace that was Compuware then when that worked we did a $5.5 billion deal that which I Dina was here yesterday that was the business that we sold to Nasdaq and that worked but now we're doing $10 billion deals.
[00:15:05] We have to sell those for 25 to make money. Wow. Our our alternative here what we have to underwrite is an IPO at a big discount to the comps when we paid a 30% premium to the comps to buy that company in the first place so we kind of start 50% in the hole What? to do that so you have to anyway I wanted to ask you this question because I I asked a friend of mine about you and he was competing with you to get the
[00:15:30] Boeing business and you you bought the Boeing avionics business recently for 10 and a half billion which I think all of us care about because hopefully it'll improve flight safety and all of that other stuff but we can talk about that in one second but he said Orlando's incredibly difficult to compete with because they're so he's so ready to buy the thing he wants to buy and he doesn't really you know nickel and dime at the edges.
[00:15:52] It's like let's find a fair price and we'll just transact and it makes it very hard for everybody else to compete with. When you get that conviction are you just willing to just basically put that much money on the line and say we're going to figure this out? We are. That's sort of Warren Buffett's mentality isn't it that he he already knows all the companies he knows which ones he wants to buy and when they come
[00:16:11] up that he doesn't nickel and dime he just quickly works out a deal. Is that something is that a mentality that you have? 100% it all it all fits together with having a small team. We also have a small portfolio. So in every fund we'll buy 10 to 12 companies. We we strive for the two core competencies that we try to have. One is buy the best and operate the best and just focus on that. In a three to four year time frame for
[00:16:39] our funds for investing our funds we cannot say with a straight face that there's 30 of the greatest companies that were available to be bought at that time. Right. So so that's why and two we cannot say with a straight face that we can try to influence management with everything we learned from an incredible mentor if we had a portfolio of 30. That's as much as we as we can handle so we have to go for it now. I do want to add that
[00:17:04] what I love about the private equity business one of the items is that those deals. Because the decisions that you make with your partners an hour before the bid is is really really important. It's really telling. Well can you take us behind the tick-tock of this Boeing asset? It's I think it's like a it touches all of us even if most of us don't understand that it even existed actually. Well it it basically runs maybe you
[00:17:28] cannot fly an airplane you're right without Jeppesen and and its system. And the way the deal started we called the the CEO Boeing actually sent him an email saying hey we could buy this division and we're paying these these good prices. So there was some interest the process started and there were about 15 private equity groups all excellent groups involved in the deal. But what why would Boeing want to sell its
[00:17:53] avionics business? I guess we should start with that like Yeah it seems pretty core. It it it's a good business and I I'm happy that they decided So you're saying that was a bad decision to sell the cockpit. Okay. We'll take it. Yeah fair enough. Um I I wanted to ask you a question about Can we get the answer to that though? What what what is the strategic rationale for Boeing to want to sell its avionics business? Is the idea that other plane
[00:18:21] manufacturers can then use that avionics system? I'll give my answer maybe you can build Yeah. I think Boeing is in this incredibly difficult position where there's a lot of diffuse things that were happening inside of the business and they had to make a real rationalization. What are the few things we can be good at? So you know one of our friends Brian Utgoe was put in charge of new plane development. I think
[00:18:43] you know you can guess what's going to happen there. That's a clear strategic bet. You know getting the 737 or the the max program back online that was a a clear bet. But when you do that you have all kinds of debt and stuff that you just need to clean out and sometimes you have to sell and and by the way you are right your instincts are right because my friends who called me basically said this is the gem asset inside of Boeing. I mean he's
[00:19:08] being very gracious by not you know so yeah but Jeppesen is the thing that everybody uses United Delta everybody needs this information to fly accurately. And it was Boeing's business and now it's Orlando's business. Okay so It's our fund's business. I wish it was my business. It's your fund's Orlando we we don't buy stuff we're we're generally year zero year one two investors who help build things but Sachs and I got to
[00:19:32] watch our friend Elon buy Twitter and that was quite eye-opening. It was also the first thing that I think he ever bought in in in you know a major way like that. What is the playbook for coming into one of these technology companies and you have like you said tired management maybe the people who are still staying at this company are the ones who couldn't find other work or maybe weren't as ambitious. What's it like day zero, day
[00:19:58] one, day two when you get in there? What's the playbook? What's you know, one, two, three, we got to do these things in the first 30 days? It's almost always the same. We we try to buy companies and Jepson is a a twinner in that because their margins were about 25% but we feel that business can be running like a Denza that we sold to Nasdaq for 50% plus running it like a software company and making the right investments.
[00:20:24] The the playbook is this, you meet with a company uh usually a public company that trades for a revenue multiple cuz they're not that profitable. And our our mentality is we try to turn what we call a good innovator into a good business. We have all these meetings with management and after we listen a lot to them, we come back to them and we have we put together a plan with them to cut cost. So, there is that element. Because you
[00:20:49] have to get in the game with a certain level of fundamental earnings to be able to afford the deal. You you you basically are what we're trying to do is turn a revenue multiple day one say we buy it for six or seven times to an EBITDA multiple in day four. If that company grew 20% and you achieve a 50% margin, you've done that. And then you say, "What are the comps? What is this thing worth? Is it a 20 PE, a 25 PE? A 20 PE is about
[00:21:13] 15 times EBITDA. You could double your asset value without the benefit of that 30% leverage which you paid down a bit and that's how you create your return. So, you you talk we talk to management very openly during the process. Even before we won the deal, even if they're not going to like us, it's that and we say, "Hey, can we put together a plan where you can make the right investment decisions but you can you cut 15% of the
[00:21:36] cost of the company?" At closing. The deal in private equity, talk about the change agent. If you don't do that at closing in private equity why are you going to shock the employees afterwards? Years two, three, four. The deal since everybody thinking there's a new owner that's going to provide change gives you the opportunity for immediate change. Now, as my mentor Marcel Bernard used to say, he was the greatest operator I've
[00:21:59] ever met, 35 years of Motorola running different divisions and that was an exceptional school of management. No matter how profitable you are, you can always cut 10%. No matter how unprofitable you are, it's difficult to cut more than 20% cuz you have to change the way people make decisions, the way management interacts, etc. How do you evaluate the talent stack? That was something that actually David was exceptional at during the Twitter
[00:22:23] acquisition. We sat there in a room and he said, "Well, who's exceptional at their job?" And then Elon said "And who's absolutely critical for this business?" And I just walked up to the whiteboard and I drew four quadrants, exceptional, essential and then there was this sort of exceptional but not essential and we we we then had a playbook. >> Elon proved that you could cut 85% of Twitter and it would still work just
[00:22:49] fine. And all the journalists were like, "Twitter's going to go down any day now." And then they were like every day they would write the same story, "Twitter went down." And we'd be like, "Oh, no, you lost your internet connection on your phone." And they'd be like, "No, it's it's not coming up." And it's like, "Yeah, yeah, you re-put the Wi-Fi password in." And it never went down. It it was pretty crazy but how do you
[00:23:11] assess talent when you're coming into one of these legacy businesses, you know, 10 years, 20 years into the business? History tells you a lot of that. So, you you're trying to identify not everybody's good at everything. And it starts with a leader. If the leader is good, everything is good. If the leader's not good, nothing is good. You you don't want to work around them to deal with sales and product and stuff
[00:23:35] because nothing is going on. Now, what does a good leader mean, right? There's so many judgments that come in. Are they is the company hitting bookings? Is it missing? Are they good at customer service? What's their retention? How do they make decisions? What we look for overall cuz nobody's perfect is to back what they're look what they're good at. We love to do add-on acquisitions for our company. So, the reason we like to
[00:23:56] take out the cost ones is the rest is about bookings growth and add-ons. We don't want to revisit margin too much. We want profitable growth going forward. Let's be done with that and then let's go forward. The leader can stand up in front of the entire employee base and said, "We needed to do this. This deal probably gave us the courage to do what we need to do. Let's go let's go build the business." So, but we we look at a leader and we
[00:24:16] say if they're open-minded if they care about numbers and if they have the following of their employees and customers and really know the business, that is something that we really really really try to work with. With all the changes we make, we've been pretty contrarian in the industry because we first try to make them with the existing people. And sometimes, you know, we make a mistake on that and they change their mind but we we try to do
[00:24:38] that. >> Before you do a deal what's the secret to figuring out how good the asset is? Do you go talk to customers, backdoor references? Do you go find the employees who quit and started companies and interview them? Like there's got to be some tricks to assess a company before you even let them know you're interested in them. What are those tricks? All of that. All of that. Now, we've usually owned a competitor or a partner to the company
[00:25:03] as well. And and we've usually known them for a long time. Like we recently announced that we were doing the Dayforce deal for 12 and a half billion. My partner Holden Spade met with the CEO of Dayforce in 2008 and we tracked that company for so long watching it. >> Patience. When does it miss? When does it hit its numbers and everything else? It's um you get you you also once you sign them up uh or are in a process where the
[00:25:30] company's giving you all their raw data you have so much information to make those choices. Like for example a company cannot say that it has really really good product if its gross margins on support are very low. You know, we can bring technology people to assess that and we have that on our team and they look at the architecture and the the talent and everything else but then you go, "How come your support
[00:25:53] calls are so high?" It's a bad product. >> It it yeah, it it it it all fits together. If you have great retention uh great margins on support, it's like for example, take support. Many people look to offshore support but now maybe AI would would get on on that and there's no need for that. What we say is eliminate the reason for the call altogether. Right. >> Is there something you can do in product? Right. So, we're evaluating all
[00:26:16] that and we love it. We geek out over it. There's a handful of PE firms obviously that are now linchpins of the capital markets, Blackstone, Apollo KKR, Carlyle. They're public. They are multistrat. They're huge pillars and I mean, you've built an incredible business. You have the credibility to do it. Is there an impetus to do it? Is there an impetus to kind of grow beyond that technology focus and if not, how do
[00:26:42] you stay in your knitting because it you know, how do you do that? How Where does the discipline come from? Look, I I think um we are very pure to our investor base and our colleagues, the two of them at the same time. What I say matters to them is the return. So, what matters for us to grow the business is get the money, get the deal, improve the deal. Going public does not help any of those things for us. That that's that's number one. Two is
[00:27:14] we're really I'm just so grateful. I I really really am for my mentors. I mean, Carlton my gave me and my partners the company. Right. >> And he mentored us. So, we want to do the same thing for the next generation and we actually feel we'll make more money by investing behind the next generation when that time comes than by going public and having a great day and a great multiple and and then what? So, so far we're just going to we're
[00:27:38] just going to stay where we are. As we wrap, I I just want to ask you a question about Puerto Rico again where we started. You're the first Puerto Rican billionaire I understand. Um it's just a number obviously but should Puerto Rico become the 51st state? You know, we we have Trump talking about Greenland, whatever. Um you know, we have these ambitions. The people of Puerto Rico seem to want to have a deeper relationship with America.
[00:28:03] It seems profoundly unfair that they're in this you know, sort of middle state. Yeah. It's such a divided place. The turnouts in elections in Puerto Rico when I was a kid used to be like 90%. It's a whole festival in the island when elections happen between the party that wants the status quo and the party that wants statehood. Now, the party that wants statehood has grown quite a bit and some of the tax incentives of being um kind of in this
[00:28:28] commonwealth status have gone away. I'm going to say something I've never said before and I I do believe it'll be better for Puerto Rico to be a state if the US would allow that. >> I'm for it. I'm here for it. Ladies and gentlemen, Orlando Bravo. Thanks, man. Wow, thank you. Incredible, huh? I'll talk to you soon. Great job. Thank you. >> Yeah, amazing.