[00:00:02] With one of the best track records in private equity >> Thoma Bravo manages $179 billion in assets. >> Thoma Bravo has grown at a blistering pace. Last year the firm returned over $13 billion to investors. In 2019 Orlando became the first Puerto Rico-born billionaire. Private equity firms the good ones definitely beat the public markets. We are in the business of turning great innovators into great businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
[00:00:33] Thoma Bravo's Orlando Bravo. [Music] [Applause] [Music] See you. Thanks for coming. How are you? David. Good to see you. For those that don't know, let me just do a a couple of data points and then we'll just jump into the story cuz Orlando has an Wait, Chamath, are we are we seriously going to ignore whatever virtue signaling Jason is doing over here? >> What's this uh virtue signal you got going on? >> right now?
[00:01:05] >> This isn't virtue signal. This is um my bestie Tulsi gave me an official scarf from her office for my wife and I stole it from my wife. So, I'm wearing it and Orlando, you may probably didn't see it yesterday, but Jason was run over by the director of national intelligence Tulsi Gabbard yesterday. He was so tilted she was walking through the Russia hoax. He was so tilted he had his phone Googling and grokking trying
[00:01:32] to get and he all he could come up with is this and literally in this tone, "What about Paul Manafort?" And nobody knew what that meant. Yeah, nobody knows who he is. Including her. Okay, so Ah, Chamath, amore, why why you got to beat up on the Jason so much? You should be nicer to him. He is your bestie. Sorry. Continue. Orlando has an incredibly inspiring story, but let me just set the backdrop of what uh Thoma Bravo is. Thoma Bravo
[00:01:59] started in 2008. So, what is that? 17 years now. And now has just a little under 200 billion, which is incredible. But here are the two stats that stunned me. In June you raised 34.4 billion dollars in basically like a set of fund vehicles, which is I want to understand how that is even possible. And then you basically have owned now or 500 companies. And many of the big software companies that you know, we probably interact with
[00:02:27] and have to deal with. But before we get into all those details, I think what's inspiring is you are a child of Puerto Rico a small town in Puerto Rico. And I texted you this before, but I just wanted you to tell everybody how does a guy and I'm not I'm saying this in a nice way from literally the middle of nowhere get here? How does that happen? Your parents, your family, like how does that happen? Well, by the way, thanks so
[00:02:55] much for having me. And I'm not sure how we're supposed to talk about serious stuff and private equity when when when we have this, but I don't know. You persevere. I I I got this. Look, um that touches my heart that you asked that question. Because when Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico kind of everything stopped for me because my best friends are there, my family's there, um cousins, my my whole upbringing. I got there on a plane the day after.
[00:03:25] And where were you at the time? I was in San Francisco. Okay. And we had gotten a message from Puerto Rico saying there's some shelters, particularly one that was really close to my hometown of Mayagüez that had only two days supply of food and water. And there are all these kids and everything else and the government of Puerto Rico they had they had trouble serving these towns. So, we said, "We'll go from San Francisco and bring a bunch
[00:03:47] of food and water and we'll we'll be there tomorrow." And they actually showed up. When I landed, three of my friends that I hadn't seen in a while, my best high school friends, one of them asked me, "Oh, now you're doing all this business stuff. How did that happen?" And I said, "Well, the odds are one of us had to get lucky." Out of out of everybody here one? I mean, that's that there's there's some odds to that. But was that
[00:04:11] something like your parents gave you where they're like, "You have to go, you have to do something" or Yes. Uh now, at every turn, I tell you this how exactly I got here I've never created anything new but I always had my mom who was a Cuban immigrant and for her just me staying there, it didn't feel right to her. She was always, you know, she would put me in positions where I would always have to be traveling to San
[00:04:37] Juan to play tennis. The sport of tennis individual. Then if I did well, I remember I played my first tournament when I was 10 years old in Caracas, Venezuela and I saw wealth back then. Caracas, Venezuela in 1982 was quite a place and you played in this fancy club. And then you know, if I do really well, I get to play in Florida. So, she was always always kind of giving me a road map for that. I was lucky that
[00:05:00] I wasn't that good to go pro, so I went so so that I went into business. But then the same thing at at work, you know, I had the two best mentors and the only thing I give myself credit for is at a young age I really listened. I had discipline and I would kind of kind of take it all in. You were also the beneficiary of an incredible mentor. And there is these great stories yesterday we heard, you know, Vlad tried to get a
[00:05:22] job at Climate Corp, couldn't, started Robinhood. You know, famously um my HR lead at Facebook introduced me to her then boyfriend Ben Silverman. We interviewed Ben. We ended up not hiring him. He immediately started Pinterest. And when you graduated from Stanford, you only got one job offer from like a three-person firm, basically. Do you want to tell us about that story? Yeah, I would, you know, at 1997 there was not not much private equity
[00:05:52] and the venture business, you didn't hire a lot of people. It was also it was also small. Now, I I want to add this to the story. I had I got one interview with one of the largest private equity firms at the time. And the head of the firm spent time with me, very very nice guy. But you know what he said, and this is 1997 "There's not much opportunity in our industry anymore. And the industry is taken." Now our firm is multiples bigger
[00:06:20] Yeah. than they are and the same thing will happen in the future for the few of you that may be interested in private equity, you'll come by and create a firm and the American spirit and entrepreneurialism and being at the right place at the right time cuz we started doing software and it's hard not to do well if you started doing software back then and had all this uh this wind behind your back. So, I didn't I couldn't get a job. There
[00:06:42] weren't many and then Carl Thoma hired me. And at the end of the process, this is interesting. There were a few private equity firms that kind of opened up a position for me to do Latin American private equity. And I'm like, "No, I've I've spent too much time in the south. The money's in the north." I I you know, I want to do US >> buyouts, tech. That's what I wanted to do. And Carl was great. He said, "If you
[00:07:05] want to do tech, that's not something we do, but you know, start looking at it and and we'll we'll help you." And so so just tell us about how the decisions you've made now to build this business. How many people do you have? How do you run 200 billion effectively? How do you raise 34 How do you What do you tell people to raise 34 billion? I don't I don't even I don't even comprehend that. I think you do. Come on.
[00:07:28] You guys have done pretty well. I appreciate that. But but it's Okay, so we have we are very very focused on keeping the team very small. So, we have about 230 people at at Thoma Bravo within the organization. Um the the reason is you if if you have too big of a team, you become internally focused and start dreaming about conversations internally. And as I always say, the deal's not in the office, the company's not in the office,
[00:07:58] and the buyer of your company's not in the office. So, you always have to be outward-facing. The second thing is I got the benefit and so did my senior partners of incredible mentorship. I can tell you so many stories about Carl Thoma spending time with me in 1998 on the deal we were going to lose. And I would be like, "Why did you spend all that time with the CEO and me on his kitchen table?" He wanted to teach me
[00:08:19] how to sell. He wanted to teach me how to do a deal. And and that was just incredible. So, if we have too many of those, we can't we can't touch the next generation leadership. So, that is that is part of our philosophy. Now, how do we raise that money? Look, our first deal it's always been one step at a time. Our first deal was 50 million. The second deal was 100 million enterprise value. The third was Data Teller 250
[00:08:41] million. We didn't buy a company in Silicon Valley till 2010. Uh that was SonicWall that we paid 550 million in a take private. That was our first foray into real cyber um in in higher growth businesses. So, one little step at a time. There was a time that we couldn't raise a billion dollars, but now we have enough of a following that, you know, people people trust us. >> of private equity in the US economy, do
[00:09:05] you think? What is the role that it should play? I think it's a great change agent. It's it's a business in a way similar to venture where what matters is the returns that you put up. And you have incredible alignment with the sources of capital. They give you the money and if you make the return, you can stay in business. And if they give you the money and you don't make the return, no matter how big we may be we slowly lose that and and
[00:09:34] we're out of business. And and that that alignment is so important because you're such a big change agent to companies. These software companies are not meant to be owned by the same group for 30 or 40 years. Management gets tired. It's exhausting to run. It's exhausting to be a CRO. And the more they trade hands, you have somebody with maybe a new idea, maybe a perspective and maybe a perspective that was right for the
[00:09:57] company at that time and that buyer like private equity can assume and be super entrepreneurial and try to do something special. >> So Orlando though the the just building on that it clearly has alignment with the investors but maybe you could talk a little bit about the broader alignment with society, jobs, the reputation of PE sometimes is a bit too cutthroat and if you hear oh a PE firm bought my favorite brand
[00:10:20] or our firm got bought by you know our startup got bought by a PE firm it's like okay they're going to cut half the people and there's going to be layoffs or maybe this brand is going to get saddled with debt and absolutely gutted for parts so what's fair or unfair about that sort of PR crisis maybe there is with PR with with PE. That is 100% fair in the 80s, 90s and maybe early 2000s. Private equity has nothing to do with
[00:10:48] that now. About 50% of the private equity deal volume is in technology. We we do that. We're on we we're very narrow we only do software. If you look at any software deal we've done in the last 12 13 years after SAS became irreversible in 05. Yeah. You're paying seven to eight times revenue and the financing on seven to eight times revenue is maybe two times of revenue. So you're putting in five to six times of equity in the company 30%
[00:11:15] debt 70% equity. If you're not building and growing that business especially if it's big nobody's going to buy it from you. It used to be that for those old school deals if you look at the return two-thirds of the return will come today from the cash flow of the business from your yield and a little bit in the terminal value. It's flipped. About two-thirds or more is terminal value appreciation and you make very
[00:11:38] little So you're a growth investor. >> on your yield. We really are we had to transfer to that because look the the lucky thing we had was after I personally made a lot of mistakes 97 to the internet bubble bursting. Carl Thoma was going to fire me and this is also true. He he talked about it in his 70th birthday and and he gave me another chance. And I said okay I'm not good at what we were doing then I'm going to go for
[00:12:03] existing management really established companies and software in 2000 you could buy recurring revenue in software cheaper than in all the other categories that private equity liked. Or think about radio cable whatever we could outdoor advertising anything so the partnerships said sure let's try let's try with something small. At that time you could buy cheap but what happened is in 2000 and 10 after the financial crisis most of
[00:12:32] our competitors that were doing those deals and it was heavily competitive then for these smaller transactions they left the business because now software became super expensive. So there's a But but we said to my but then we said oh instead of complaining that we cannot do what we were doing before because everything changes now we have the wherewithal to buy the best and the number one so let's go for the number
[00:12:52] one player that can grow. So you started doing a lot of these SAS deals in 2010. When you sit there with your partners in 2025 is there a risk of SAS being cannibalized from within by AI or you know how it can just be rebuilt in different ways. How do you underwrite it today which is different from how you may would have underwritten it in 2010? Our investors don't love to hear this because for right our our investors especially
[00:13:22] the large institutions that's kind of our market that those are our our our people that have backed us for a long time besides good returns they need consistency and predictability. They would rather have us do what we were doing in 2002 in these deals I'm wondering why can't you just keep doing the same thing and it all changes. One is there is a big risk of AI in this business. I mean in a big big way. There's so many verticals that
[00:13:50] are going to get disrupted there's so many areas that are very confusing and you don't want to touch so it limits the space significantly even if you believe what we believe which is in the enterprise it's going to take a while because we always say technology is evolutionary not revolutionary because our customers are buying this stuff for cost. They want the ROI and you need to see the plan and everything else but one
[00:14:13] is there's a big disruption and that's another all these areas we don't get into. Um and we have to keep learning um and and updating ourselves and that's that's a lot of of work that the young people in the firm as well will have to do but we have another equally big or even bigger challenge which is if you look at our trajectory it's not like one day we woke up and said oh we can do a $10 billion deal. No we we started 50 that trajectory in
[00:14:40] 2010 we did $3 billion deals in a row. Um we bought Blue Coat we took it private Deltek we took private we bought Digital Insight from Intuit when those worked then we did a $2.5 billion deal that became Dynatrace that was Compuware then when that worked we did a $5.5 billion deal that which I Dina was here yesterday that was the business that we sold to Nasdaq and that worked but now we're doing $10 billion deals.
[00:15:05] We have to sell those for 25 to make money. Wow. Our our alternative here what we have to underwrite is an IPO at a big discount to the comps when we paid a 30% premium to the comps to buy that company in the first place so we kind of start 50% in the hole What? to do that so you have to anyway I wanted to ask you this question because I I asked a friend of mine about you and he was competing with you to get the
[00:15:30] Boeing business and you you bought the Boeing avionics business recently for 10 and a half billion which I think all of us care about because hopefully it'll improve flight safety and all of that other stuff but we can talk about that in one second but he said Orlando's incredibly difficult to compete with because they're so he's so ready to buy the thing he wants to buy and he doesn't really you know nickel and dime at the edges.
[00:15:52] It's like let's find a fair price and we'll just transact and it makes it very hard for everybody else to compete with. When you get that conviction are you just willing to just basically put that much money on the line and say we're going to figure this out? We are. That's sort of Warren Buffett's mentality isn't it that he he already knows all the companies he knows which ones he wants to buy and when they come
[00:16:11] up that he doesn't nickel and dime he just quickly works out a deal. Is that something is that a mentality that you have? 100% it all it all fits together with having a small team. We also have a small portfolio. So in every fund we'll buy 10 to 12 companies. We we strive for the two core competencies that we try to have. One is buy the best and operate the best and just focus on that. In a three to four year time frame for
[00:16:39] our funds for investing our funds we cannot say with a straight face that there's 30 of the greatest companies that were available to be bought at that time. Right. So so that's why and two we cannot say with a straight face that we can try to influence management with everything we learned from an incredible mentor if we had a portfolio of 30. That's as much as we as we can handle so we have to go for it now. I do want to add that