[01:18:37] of the things that our quote leading physicists have laughed at. Look out. >> That's where the discovery and the reinvention is going to happen. China is going to have a private model and they're going to say assume that the completely failed the most failed theory in the history of modern physics string theory and something called M theory and quantum gravity assume for the moment that it's a red herring meant to distract us.
[01:19:08] It's not our leading theory. It hasn't been our leading theory for 42 years. It can't that the dog can't hunt. What was it meant to stop us from seeing? >> And the AI will get there. >> The AI will get there. >> And when the AI gets there, we have >> everyone who has an AI that can do this. Again, I'm I'm saying completely radical things because quite honestly, that's what we're supposed to be doing. We're supposed to have John vonman's and
[01:19:37] Richard Fineman's and Paul Dox and all of these characters and we don't have any of them. So, I'm trying to say what this sounds like. You're all wrong and I'm right. And don't tell me that I'm arrogant or that I'm conceited or that real scientists are humble or if you understand something, you can explain it to a 5-year-old. That's all nonsense. What I'm trying to say is string theory has not been our leading theory for 42
[01:20:02] years. It has never been the only game in town. And just the way Jeffrey Epstein was never a hedge fund manager. We're not allowed to say this. I don't know why. I want to know is there somebody over at CIA and the science and technology directorate who would like to have that conversation? Is there anybody over at the Department of Energy who would be interested in not having this conversation right now? You and I are
[01:20:24] having a conversation with our friends, the Chinese and the North Koreans and the Russians. Why are we doing this? Are are you so confident that I'm wrong given this obviously huge amount of knowledge that most people have never heard? Well, I I think the question is can you really distinguish and can you really cage the AI? I mean at the end of the day >> say more. >> So if the rate of progress with AI is such that and the ubiquity of access and
[01:20:54] the corpus to your point of knowledge and non-nowledge >> right >> is apparent to everyone. the AI can be directed from anywhere and it's probably a conversation about what does humanity look like and I think that's a conversation with humanity not with nation states per se. >> Well, I think what I'm trying to get at is my model of the AI is it is insane to have pushed out the AI as a commercial product. It's just
[01:21:26] funny. Let me imagine the scene from silence. >> It's just matrices and linear algebra. I mean, >> yeah, it's just inner products. >> Mhm. >> There's a scene in Silence of the Lambs where Hannibal Lectar is wheeled out on a gurnie in a straight jacket with a crazy mask and there's all these people around because he's so dangerous, but he's very, very intelligent. That's what I think Anthropic is doing. Here's your new employee,
[01:21:54] Hannibal Lectar. He's a consultant. You've hired Hannibal Lectar from a temporary agency. And the harness that is supposed to keep you from hurting yourself is all the people around him, the mask and the straight bear. And we've decided that this military research project is something you need in your home. It's like telling people, look, the second amendment just says the right to keep and bear arms. We have
[01:22:17] this thing we haven't used called the Davy Crockett, a soldier launched personal nuke. Why isn't it available at Kmart with a waiting period? >> Yeah. Well, it's been distilled at this point. I don't know if that's a relevant point anymore because models have been distilled or the model development's been commoditized and it's been open weight released and it's out there now. So models are there, models are here.
[01:22:40] >> Yep. >> And to your point, maybe those models get pointed at the path of discover novel physics and look at strange texts and ideas and and rethink everything. >> It's going to be a hell of a ride. >> It's going to be a hell of a ride. Yeah. I just want to hear your your one assessment because I I I wonder if this is a glimmer. What what do you think UAPs are today? Is that really the first window in what's happening? If there's
[01:23:06] something there, the question for you is what do you think today UAPs are? >> Let's answer that question, but I want to take let's do it in a debugger and we'll step through it line by line of the code as it executes. I look at you, I'm on a podcast. My first thought is I know what risks I'm running. If I say what I think, I can tell you which colleagues will not open their doors to me. No, I'm not kidding. >> When I took a job with Peter Teal, let's
[01:23:34] imagine that there are only about 125 people I can speak to about my work. I would say 30% of the doors closed to me just by virtue of the fact that I work with Peter Teal. And I don't think he's the devil and he's a close personal friend. Now you're asking me the question of how many of the remaining doors would you like to close? Eric, it's not just a question. I know how these people think and I know how terrified they are. Let's answer it
[01:23:59] anyway. If general relativity is really the last word, I think that these UAP UFO things are nation states experimental weapons system. I think that there's been some breakthrough particularly in the 1970s. No, sorry, in the 60s. There's a 1971 Australian intelligence document where Australia, which was the testing ground for nukes that of the of the United Kingdom, started seeing all these UAPs near their nuclear test just the way we
[01:24:30] see them near ours. And the Australians revealed that all of our best people, not all of our best people, many of our best people and many of our top institutions were doing anti-gravity, technically gravity shielding research. And the cover story was the golden age of general relativity where suddenly general relativity was hot from the early 50s to the late 60s early 70s. The claim from the se that 71 document
[01:24:57] is no no the only reason everybody went towards gravity is that there were there was interest in gravity shielding anti-gravity etc etc. I don't believe general relativity is the last word. I believe pinch to zoom exists. There's another multi-touch gesture called shear to tilt and that means that we can leave our solar system. Okay, that's great news because it means we can survive. The implication is if we can leave everyone else can
[01:25:22] come and given the size of the universe we the odds that we are the most advanced life form is laughable. There's no point in worrying about them. So if we can leave, I think they're here and I think we can leave. And I think the thing the scenario to worry about is North Sentinel Island that everybody who lives on North Sentinel Island is considered a citizen of India and they don't know the word India. They're an uncontacted people who don't
[01:25:53] know that they're part of something larger that watches them that does not allow people to land. But if they started sending out radio signals and then they started letting off nukes on that tiny little island, India would not have this paternalistic attitude towards its primitive tribe. So my concern is that when we let off a nuke in 1945 or when Italy became very good at quantum theory with Fermy and I forget
[01:26:24] what the name of the the atomic boys and there was this magenta incident under Mussolini. Somehow UAPs are very tied to nukes. And I believe that a nuke is the sign that you become advanced enough that the next thing you figure out how to do is to leave and traverse through propulsion. We don't realize that yet because we've never seen that happen. But my claim is is that almost every civilization before it gets to using the
[01:26:56] profound propulsion game which is these multi-touch gestures first lets off a nuke and that we alerted whatever India is in this analogy we're almost ready to come out and we're so pathetically unevolved that we are a danger to any other civilization if there's so much power in the next theory, which I I believe geometric unity is the next theory. Now, that will cause a certain percentage of your audience to say, "Oh, it's just
[01:27:28] self-promotion." As opposed to, "No, no, no, that's what you're supposed to do. If you have a theory, you talk about Yes. I think I think that there are all sorts of things that you can do. I think there's multi-temporal movement. I think that there's dark chemistry. I think that there's dark light. I think that there are two other families of chyro matter left to discover at a luminous level. Spin three halves matter exists. I believe that SU4
[01:27:59] cross SU2 SU2 is the next grand unified theory that we'll find. There is so much more to do that when we make this jump, the world will become unrecognizable. And I believe that there are other life forms in the universe and that they can come and they can visit. And I don't think that that's preposterous. I think that we are an uncontacted people. On that note, I think we have more to talk about in the future. This has been a
[01:28:30] truly unique, fascinating, and I think for a lot of people in our audience, this is not a typical conversation. But I I just want to highlight the importance of hearing what you have to say. Because I think it's very important that even if something seems not apparent, particularly when things seem unlikely or when things seem outlandish or heretical or whatever term you might want to put onto things, it's valuable
[01:28:57] to to take that in. It's definitely a lot to kind of think about the paths ahead and I'd love to talk more. >> I'd love to do that. I'd love to do it with your friends and I also just want to say thanks for having me. it it's time for America to lead because there's no other nation I trust like I trust our people to take care of uh of this planet. We should make common cause with our rivals as fast as we can because the
[01:29:27] danger of getting to the next level of leverage in a contested situation is overwhelming. M >> it's very important we went in the Persian Gulf and it's very important that the scientific community recognizes that despite their feelings about Donald Trump. We've got four or five individuals with the science portfolio who are much much better than the PhDs think and before you turn up your nose at this consider doing what I did which
[01:29:53] is to come for a few days to Washington DC and utter the dangerous words how can I help?
[01:30:16] I'm going all in. [music]