[00:32:31] work or explain it rather? Yeah. >> Yeah. It was the very basic simplest circuit. uh you know we were using analog simulators at the time not even the I took data with a computer but this is this is far back enough that you know it was very rudimentary >> and then over the years we just got more sophisticated design by the whole field you know many many people >> and uh and we were able to put things together in a way to actually build a
[00:33:01] computer now >> right >> the the I would say the reason why It's interesting from the Nobel Prize thing is what it led to and what it led to right now is a thousand maybe several thousand people around the world doing research to build this superconducting quantum computer and and it's just turned into enormous field large number of papers large number of people people selling quantum computers IBM is selling
[00:33:32] quantum computers people are selling time in the quantum computers and the fact that it was a it was a useful idea okay that led and and and brought into form uh uh all all these different experiments ideas and many many people contributed this >> I mean it's very interesting and I think just this broad question or observation that sometimes inquisitive minds leads to research that leads to some set of discovery that are completely not
[00:34:07] apparent until 40 years later. the effect or the impact it may have had >> on building an industrial field like there's now quantum computing everyone feels is on the brink >> of actually achieving what people have talked about in theory for decades but seems to be getting very close to doing it and >> yeah I I can talk on that but I would say um you know this field many other ideas on how to build a quantum computer
[00:34:33] has been generated and uh it is very exciting field quite large field and I would say that the science was very very deep too. To get these things to work you have to invent lots of different devices. You have to think about materials. You have to fabricate it, build complex control systems. Engineering and physics is is to me quite beautiful. And and just to tell you a little bit about me, um you know, I grew up building things and as an
[00:35:04] experimentalist, you know, I like to to build instruments, you know, build experiments to show this. And this was kind of the ideal project for me because, you know, from very early on it was like, well, let's, you know, do this great physics, but let's also build something. And by saying, well, what do we have to do to build a quantum computer? that kind of led me to know what physics we have to test and what are the kinds of things we
[00:35:31] have to build and that's just the way my mind works. I'm I'm much more practically oriented. So it was a perfect field for me to get in and that's kind of what you know intuitively led me to you know want to do this in graduate school. And I think it's just so fascinating the amount of engineering and technology you have to do to make this work. >> Where are we in quantum computing evolution today? So what's the state? At
[00:35:58] what point will we have call it generally accessible and generally useful quantum computers that can do all of the amazing things everyone's kind of talked about for decades that one would be able to do quantum computers. >> That's right. So um right now we're we're about 50 or 100 cubits for the superconducting case but they they can be fully controlled and run real algorithms and do very complicated things. They have a lot of other systems
[00:36:26] that can do that. I think the the newcomer on the block which looks good is neutral atoms where they've made big neutral atom systems but they they're still working to get the gates controlled really well and the like. But what's happened right now is we can run genuine algorithms on that and people have uh h you know have ideas they want to run but because these cubits are not perfect okay you it's an analog control
[00:36:58] system and fundamentally these quantum bits have a little bit of error to it little bit of noise to it you can only run so complicated of a project and it's good enough to write scientific papers and try things out. Uh, every once in a while people say they've done something uh, you know, that's hard to compute and well that's fine, but they aren't really big enough to be useful yet. They have to get bigger and they have to get
[00:37:27] better, less noise. >> Do you have a point of view on the timelines? This is everyone's speculation and there's been more hype than reality. >> Yeah, there's more hype than reality and and uh, and it's hard. I used to not want to speculate that but since I started a company then I can do that and what we want to do and it's a timeline of many other groups is to do something in let's say in the next 8 10 years
[00:37:54] something like that but the problem is you know people are predicting 10 years you know for a while now so okay we we have to do that but um I can tell you for what we're doing is that we've identified by what are kind of the technology bottlenecks of the current fabric turn ways to make a a quantum computer. We've written some papers on it and you know we're working with people in the semiconductor industry to
[00:38:24] manufacture this in a much more coste effective quality way you know the way you make these GPUs or something and we think uh you know when we get that to work we can scale up very rapidly so in in a let's say 10year time scale something like that >> in a lot of technically difficult fields like fusion energy perhaps even quantum computing. They are seeing profound acceleration in getting to their crazy big goals on
[00:38:54] these very big technical projects because of AI. Is AI starting to play a role in solving some of the engineering, material science, scaling, noise issues that we've seen historically in quantum computing? And do you think that there's an acceleration underway in performance improvements because of AI? there there may be um my partic and and and there's things we can maybe do modeling and the like. We also think what we can do is
[00:39:22] use the quantum computer and AI together to solve the problems better. So that that that's what our theory team is proposing. I used to work with Google quantum AI. That's what they're proposing. So there's a general feeling of that. My particular view though is that in terms of this control, if you don't build your system cleanly enough and you know that the control is clear enough, uh you're you're not going to
[00:39:54] get the the great performance out of it. So I'm a little bit old school here and and working on you know building it that way. There's certainly some elements where you can use AI, you know, in the decoding circuit for the the error correction and the like. But the one thing to mention to you is that, you know, these cubits are are naturally very noisy and you can maybe do sometimes 100 for bad cubits and maybe a thousand maybe few thousand
[00:40:25] operations before they kind of lose their memory. You know, you can think of it as like dynamic RAM where you have to refresh it. Well, you have to refresh it with error correction. And because of that, you're talking about a million cubit quantum computers to be general purpose and solve really hard problems. There might be some >> a million something. A million is a good round number for it. Maybe a little bit
[00:40:49] more. And right now we're at you know a hundred or you know a little bit more than that. So we have a ways to go. What is your view on China and the progress that they're making in this technology versus the US? This is the topic dour in every field, industrial field, computing, science is where's China at compared to the US, the comparisons and everyone's worried about the progress in China versus the US and
[00:41:16] what that means. So I can talk about my own field but when I have read the papers that um duplicated what we did at at Google on the quantum supremacy experiment you know they know what they're doing. I mean they they go through the theory they talk about a lot of it is very similar to what we're doing but they know what they're doing and they're getting great results. And the thing that scares me a little bit
[00:41:44] is, you know, last December the Google group published the latest results, which is really much nicer. They made some real improvement, but then China soon afterward published something kind of indicating they were, you know, on par or near par or something to it. And, you know, I'm worried that the the Chinese government is saying, well, you can't publish anything until it's in the Western press. and then you can, you
[00:42:11] know, then it's open and you can talk about it. >> That's precisely what I've heard. And so, >> yeah. So, so uh, you know, I I'm I'm a I'm a little bit uh concerned about that. Now, what we're doing with our our company is we're doing a new generation of fabrication of the devices. And I would cons consider in my my my research we had the simple fabrication with the original papers in 85 and then around 2000 we had more sophisticated
[00:42:44] fabrication and then for the quantum supremacy experiment we did something even more complicated other groups too but we want to do a similar jump in the fabrication and what's interesting about this is we're going to be using applied materials and the modern fabrication processes that they have which on 300 mm tools you know you can't get in China for example >> you can get it for camos and then they're developing we're developing
[00:43:17] standard processes but you know new recipes and new ways to put it together >> and we think by doing that we can do a huge leaprog and then get there faster and get there in a way that you know will protect our lead. There's other things we're doing too. Uh and you know that that's a small part of it, but uh you know we think there's a way to um you know really lead the field and uh and we're happy we have good industrial
[00:43:46] partners of uh applied materials synopsis design tools Hula Packard Enterprise some startups who do the theory work. Uh so you know we have a good consortium and we want to use all that knowledge and expertise of engineering to make this happen. >> Where were you when you got the news this week that you won the Nobel Prize and how surprised were you because this is a 40year-old research effort. Had anyone giving you a
[00:44:14] call rumor gossip mill saying, "Hey, you're on the list this year potentially being considered." >> So let me uh give you a little bit of the inside story. Um you know if you we we've known that this was a important experiment from the beginning. we've obtained some other prizes that are you know much less wellknown and really appreciative of all that and you you what happens is the Nobel um um system uh put together Nobel symposiums where
[00:44:47] they get together physicists in a certain field which is quantum information and this kind of thing and they they give uh have all the scientists give talks and and they want to kind of check on the vi vitality of the you know of the field, how big is it? And then you know also maybe some of the the leaders that maybe think about it, you know, can they give a good talk? Would they good be a good representative?
[00:45:13] So um Michelle and John and I have been to these uh symposiums before and we kind of knew, you know, what was going on, you know, that at least we were considered. And but I I'll just tell you as a scientist just to be invited to these and be considered is a is a fantastic honor, you know, and and having getting the prize is just so kind of unbelievable that you shouldn't think that way. So, you know, I've known about
[00:45:42] it for a few years. And in fact, to be very honest, in the past when the dates have come around, it's like, oh, is this going to happen? And then you wake up in the morning and it's like, "Oh, it didn't happen." And you're kind of down for a day. You know, it didn't happen this year. And that's a very bad attitude. I I don't like that at all. And, you know, you you should not covet some, you know, insanely difficult uh
[00:46:10] prize that, you know, only only goes to a few people. So, what happened this year is I kind of worked through this over several years and this year I just kind of forgot about it. Okay. So, I went to bed and then uh and then uh we got the call at 3:00 and my wife answered the phone and found out what happened. But um she didn't wake me up right away because she knew if the day was going to be hectic and I needed my
[00:46:37] sleep to not be grumpy. That >> was nice of her. >> Don't want to be grumpy talking it. So, she woke me up at 5:30 and >> you know, as I looked at the computer, oh my god. you know, and then we had some reporters coming over at 6 >> which, you know, interviewed me, you know, right when I had found out, half hour after I'd found out. >> And it's it's a it's it's great. It's it's a great honor and uh it's just been
[00:47:02] really fun. And then, you know, I've been getting a lot of emails from people I've worked with or students I've had in the past congratulating me and you exchange little stories and the like. and it's it's it's kind of a very special time. >> That's great. Any um science or technology fields that you've been following outside of your core discipline that you think are really exciting. I always like to hear what
[00:47:30] major kind of thinkers >> to be honest. I'm just so focused on doing this and especially when you start a company, you better be focused, right? So, I'm doing that. But one of the fields that I find, this is someone Ben Mazen at UC Santa Barbara is looking for exoplanets and they're using superconducting detectors that are somewhat similar to what we're doing. In fact, in the 1990s or so, I helped, you know, helped
[00:48:04] establish that field with other people and did that for five, six, seven years uh to do that. but he's doing it in a different way. And I really like how, you know, this instrumentation, you know, that we've been working on is their quantum devices are are now able to um uh do these astronomy uh detectors and and look for look for these. And of course, there's so much going on in astronomy these way days with gravitational detectors and
[00:48:35] exoplanet searches and it it it's just really fascinating to me. And again it's very much technologyoriented where people are building good detectors. This is what I like. Okay. I like building building instruments. So that that's particularly interest. >> Yeah, that's great. I mean very exciting field and hopefully will develop quantum computers that will help us build materials and technology to help us get
[00:49:03] there one day. >> So that's right. >> Many rungs on the ladder of human progress. Well, congratulations again on winning the Nobel Prize in physics this year. Very welld deserved. It's a fantastic moment. Enjoy it. Enjoy the ceremony and we're excited for your continued work in the field of material quantum computing. And thank you. >> Yeah. And thank you. I really enjoyed the questions and the flow where you
[00:49:28] were asking questions to explain it at the right level for people. And uh I I I really appreciate that. This is a great great podcast. >> Great. Thank you. [Music] >> I'm going all in.