[00:36:46] meeting alien civilizations. Uh maybe in some cases we we see the ruins of a long dead alien civilization but they were they were very strong for 10 million years. Um you know the kind of stuff that you see in Star Trek in in a non-dystopian sci-fi book or or movie or show. Um, and so I'm just I have I have a philosophy of curiosity of of like I just want to know what's going on. And and in order to know what's going on, we we must have u an an increase in the in
[00:37:15] the scope and scale of consciousness, we must we must expand uh consciousness. We must grow. We must grow humanity and we must extend humanity in order to comprehend the and to to understand the universe or even what what question should we should ask about the answer that is the universe. Um you know Doug No text Douglas Adams book the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy is actually a a deep book on philosophy
[00:37:44] disguised as humor. Um and what the point he was trying to make in that book was that u the questions are the really the hard part. The answer is the universe. Like the answer is everything you see around you. But but but one of the questions that we don't know to ask. Yeah. Um now now some of the questions I guess I we I do know. I'd like to know is the standard model of physics correct about the origins of the universe? Are we actually 13.8 billion years old? Um how
[00:38:11] does the universe end? Does it end in a heat death or in some other way? Um, you know, a black hole. We might be. Um, Elon, can you talk about the whole sort of simulation question? Are we a simulation? Maybe. Where does the uh where do you think we find the answer first? In AI or in the stars? Because you're pursuing both obviously. Yeah. I I I don't know if if I I hope I hope more people can get behind a
[00:38:47] philosophy of curiosity. Yeah. Because I think it's very exciting. Yeah. Um and and and and inherently optimistic. Um you like because there's there's this amazing sense of wonder about the nature of the universe. And when you just when you uncover some secret in the universe, that's amazing. And you're like a whole world of understanding is opened up. I mean, we we used to not even know where all the continents were. Um, you know, used to
[00:39:22] be like just the map would be there be dragons and like all we know is that when they sailed in that direction, they didn't come back. I mean, the moon base, that's all that's all they knew. I I kind of feel like the moon base or just going to the moon for real this time would be a big step in the right direction. You still have the moon uh planned. What's the status of that? Is is that still on the agenda?
[00:39:47] Yeah, I I think it I think having I think we want to try to reach new heights as a civilization. Yeah. So, I think it's it's fine to go to the moon, but but we should go to the moon in order to establish a lunar base, like a a lunar research base. Yeah. Um, I mean there are parts of the moon that are perhaps older than parts of of Earth. Um, and we we we might understand more about the nature of the universe if we had a science base on the
[00:40:13] moon. Um, that would be very cool. And then we we obviously want to go beyond the moon uh to Mars and uh build a self-sustaining city on Mars. the I I I do think that uh that that there is a fork in the road of human destiny where um if we can establish a self-sustaining city on Mars with the the key test being if the resupply shifts from Earth stop coming for any reason does Mars continue to to prosper or does it die out at the point at which Mars is able to uh
[00:40:47] prosper and grow on its own the probable lifespan of consciousness is dramatically greater. because we are no longer dependent on everything going right on Earth. You know, there's there's always some possibility of self annihilation on Earth with the World War II or or a supervirus or um or or a meteor like extin, you know, that destroyed the dinosaurs. We know from the fossil record that there've been many mass mass extinction events. So uh the question
[00:41:16] that I sort of was wondering about is will civilization will the civilizational arc continue to ascend such that we can make Mars self- sustaining before the civil civilizational ark descends um because the the window of opportunity to make life multilanetary exists now for the first time in the 4 and a half billion year history of earth. Yeah. Elon, let's assume that we get there and you're there. Um, you know, you'd be the elder
[00:41:49] statesman. You'd have the moral authority of Mars. How do you run Mars? But I just there's this point that I I think I I want to just emphasize again that that's that's it's more important than the form of governance on Mars or who's there in the early days. What really matters is that Mars um is self- sustaining that we are truly a multilanet species and s such that we've achieved planetary redundancy so that that if if something and obviously we
[00:42:26] should do everything possible to make sure life on Earth is great but there's always some risk that of an annihilation event on Earth. Yeah. Um like I said self annihilation or some natural disaster. Um and uh and so the the probable lifespan of consciousness increases dramatically as soon as uh as soon as we are multilanet species with the key test being can Mars survive if the resupply ships stop coming. So so getting like the first missions to Mars are not that
[00:42:56] important. The what matters is can you get sufficient tonnage tonnage to Mars such that Mars can prosper on its own. Um, and that means it has to have all of the ingredients of civilization. It it it's not just that you need to build, for example, a chip factory on Mars or ship fab on Mars, but you you need the ability to build. Do you do you have a sense of the time scale? Like, let's assume Starship is at a state starting in, you know, 2026.
[00:43:23] Then there's going to be a bunch of testing. Obviously, there's going to be a bunch of early testing. We only have certain launch windows. So, there's a bunch of time constraints. Is that is this a 50-year thing in your mind? Is it a 150 year thing? Is it something that is for our generation or is it our children's generation? Where do you see that point if it's optimally possible? You know, if things go and break our way, um I think it can be done in in 30
[00:43:49] years. Um wow. So if provided there's an exponential increase in the in the tonnage to Mars with each successive Mars transfer window, which is every two years. So every two years the the planets align and you can you can transfer to Mars. Um, so I I think in roughly 15, but maybe as few as 10, but 10 to 15ish Mars transfer windows. If you're um seeing exponential increases in the tonnage to Mars with each Mars transfer window, then it should be possible to
[00:44:28] make Mars self-sustaining um in in about call it roughly 25 years. Amazing. That's incredible. All right, ladies and gentlemen, Elon Musk, we'll see you when we're back in town. We miss you. We'll see you in person next time. Thank you, brother. All right.