[00:18:53] like like your phone currently does? Okay. And so will you be able to have basically like if you if if you're in a building with a with a like a a thick metal roof then No. But um no the the same types of of Yeah. Normal normal homes. Yes. Yes. Elon is your vision for this that instead of you know having an AT&T account or and then roaming when you're in the UK or you're in India. It's just we could have one direct deal with
[00:19:18] Starlink. It works all over the world eventually. Not today but at some point. Is that the end goal? That basically we don't need a regional carrier. We have a global carrier and that would be you. Uh that that would be one of the options. To be clear, we're not going to put the other carriers out of business. They're still going to be around cuz they they own a lot of Spectrum. So, uh there's uh but but yes, you you should
[00:19:42] be able to have a Starlink uh like you have like you have an AT&T or T-Mobile or Verizon or whatever, you should be you could have a you know account with Starlink that uh works with your you know Starlink uh antenna at home uh free Wi-Fi as well as on your phone and um yeah it would be a comprehensive solution for high bandwidth at home and for high bandwidth direct to sell. Could you buy some carriers to have more spectrum? Maybe you could buy Verizon.
[00:20:14] Not out of the question. I suppose it that may happen. Let's talk about um let's talk about Starship. You just had a really what appeared to be a phenomenal um launch. H how close is it to, you know, being predictable and ready to go in a commercial setting? I I I think we'll recover the ship next year. Um we've got one more launch of the um Starlink version two uh uh stack that there's only one one uh booster and ship left that's in the
[00:20:54] version two uh design. Uh and then thereafter it's it's version three which is a gigantic upgrade cuz that's got Raptor 3. Um, and pretty much everything changes on the rocket with version 3. Um, so version 3, you know, might have some initial teething pains, uh, cuz it's such a radical redesign. Uh, but, uh, it's it's capable of over 100 tons to orbit fully reusable. Um, and I think it's I think I think um
[00:21:26] unless we have unless we have some very major setbacks, uh, SpaceX will demonstrate uh, full reusability next year uh, catching both the booster and the ship um, and being able to deliver over 100 tons to a useful orbit. What does the best rocket in the world do now in terms of tonnage to space? Uh well in terms of uh sort of commercial rockets there's there's Falcon Heavy. Yeah. Uh which will do uh in um with with side booster reuse uh will
[00:22:04] do about 40 tons. So this is five times bigger. Yeah. Well two and a half times bigger in but but Starship would be full reuse full reusability. Got it. Okay. So everything comes back Elon after after the explosion that happened um with the the the the failed launch um there was a lot of sorry which which failed oh the more recent one the more recent the starship with the big boom yeah the big boom on the base and and and
[00:22:36] there was a lot of there was a lot of proclamations that there's going to be environmental and FAA and all these other sorts the recovery back to the launchpad again was incredible. fast. How did you get back so fast? Not just technically and work-wise, but just like regulatory clearance-wise because they said there were going to be all these questions and reviews and so on. How how did you guys manage that?
[00:23:01] Uh well, there were a lot of questions and reviews. We got through them all. Um and credit to the SpaceX team. They worked incredibly hard and they uh got the next trip and booster tested and on the pad and and flown and um yeah, huge credit to the SpaceX team. Very proud of them for doing doing such a job, a great job recovering. Um I mean creating a fully reusable orbital rocket is one of the hottest engineering problems ever.
[00:23:32] and certainly, you know, a candidate for most difficult engineering project ever. You know, it's on the podium at least. Um, so it's a that that's been the goal of SpaceX from the beginning from 2002. Um, and here we are 23 years later. So, it's it's a long journey and um with with a a super talent like by far the I think the most talented group of rocket engineers that ever been assembled. Um and uh and we're finally
[00:24:05] next year I think we'll be able to achieve full reusability. Elon, what are the big um technical blockers that you're focused on there between now and that full reusability? Are there some showstoppers where you're just kind of literally just obsessing over trying to figure out still or is it more about getting through a laundry list of your learnings and just integrating it into the next launch? Well, that the for for full reusability of the ship,
[00:24:41] there's still a lot of work that remains on the heat shield. So, no one's ever made a fully reusable orbital heat shield. Like the shuttle heat shield uh had to go through nine months of repair after every flight, right? Um so, no one has ever made a fully reusable orbital heat shield. And is that a material science problem or is that an engineering problem or both? Uh yeah, I mean it's a material science
[00:25:06] engineering problem. So, it's but we really are uh looking at the fundamental physics here. Um again physics first principles and trying to figure out how do we make something that um is uh you know can can withstand the heat is very light doesn't transmit the heat to the the primary sh Yeah. primary structure um and uh whose integ Yeah. Um Uh, and then as you ascend, if you hit some rain, you know, the tiles don't dissolve in rain. There's there's a lot
[00:25:51] of different issues and and then you really need to know that these tiles are working. You can't uh, you know, go through this laborious inspection. So, it really needs to be we're, you know, these these tens of thousands of tiles all work and don't need to be refurbished or checked one by one as was the case with the shuttle. Can we maybe um switch now? It's I mean, No text who who else were you talked about Tesla, then you go to SpaceX? Yeah. Now, I' I'd like to ask you some questions
[00:26:24] about Grock and um XAI. Um you want to just give us an update? I think you you kind of talked about where the nextG model is and you said something incredible. I still don't think people really understand it which is you know there's going to be a next training run where you expect you know not to start from the you know common web and common crawl where you expected an enormous amount of synthetic data. Just tell us about how uh the evolution of Grock is
[00:26:53] going and this innovation and why it's so important. Yeah. So we're we're running a lot of using a lot of of inference compute and um and reasoning to look at all of the source data which is really the corpus of human knowledge and then uh thinking about each piece of information and then adding mod adding what's missing um and correcting correcting mistakes and removing falsehoods from the from that training data. So it's it's it's like if you take
[00:27:30] say Wikipedia as an example but this really applies to to books, PDFs, uh the websites, uh every form of information. Um the the Grock is using um heavy amounts of inference compute to say to look at at an example a Wikipedia page and say uh what is true, partially true or false or missing uh in this page. Now rewrite the page to in to correct the remove the falsehoods uh uh correct the half-truths and add the missing context.
[00:28:13] Well, Elon, by the way, could you just publish that? Could we create like a groipedia? I mean, that would Yeah, especially for our bio pages, which are a disaster. Wikipedia is so biased and it's it's a constant war. you know, if something gets corrected, five minutes later, there'll be an army of people trying to I mean, it's become hyperartisan and there's activists all over it. So, if you do fix, for example, Wikipedia as a source of truth, it'd be great to publish that just so
[00:28:42] the world has it. All right, I'll talk talk about that. So, talk to the team about that like Groedia or whatever. This here's the Groedia version. It' be interesting. Yeah. and then just have it out there for just a few minutes where in terms of um people here like it um in terms of training Gro 5 um you're you're scaling up your supercluster in Colossus in in Memphis can yeah have a second one yeah can could you give us an update on
[00:29:13] that and then also as part of that um where are we in the scaling laws um if you scale a bigger cluster do you get a more powerful AI model is there a point of dimin diminishing returns or like how much more compute if you throw twice as much compute at it do you get a 10% better model do you get 100% better model like is it log linear what what I guess how much more juice is there left in scaling hardware do you think I think I think there's a natural
[00:29:44] logarithmic function associated with the amount of compute so uh then like say for argument sake like 10x more compute will double the intelligence. Maybe that's that that might be a rough rule of thumb, but you know, that still means that, you know, you go from 100 IQ to 200 IQ. Still pretty pretty big deal. Um, so I and and I think I think we'll see intelligence continue to scale all the way up to where, you know, most of the
[00:30:16] power of the sun is harnessed for compute and then ultimately most of the power of the galaxy, you know, sort of cautev 2, cautev 3 scale uh compute. Um so I guess once you think of artificial intelligence not as sort of this you know a destination that you reach but really uh as part of the overall escalation of intelligence um that that that we are are aware of. Um you know human intelligence has also scaled as you've have as the population has increased um and we've been able to
[00:30:54] store more and more information. uh human intelligence has scaled. Now human because of population declines and low growth rate, human intelligence is is somewhat plateauing um and will actually decline. And my guess is that I I I I think that we might have AI smarter than any single human at anything as soon as next year. Wow. Um Yeah. and and and then and then probably within five like say 2030 probably AI is
[00:31:27] smarter than the sum of all humans. Do you think do you think humans are on the decline because the AI is evolving? No text Do you think there's this evolution of the ecosystem on Earth that's underway that we don't really understand the structure of what's going on? But maybe yeah, maybe we implicitly know that it's coming. Um, yeah. I I I I mean I hope the birth rates turn around. I'm a I'm a big proponent of
[00:32:05] increased birth rate. Uh, obviously. Well, you doing anything about it or no? Yeah. I'm trying to set a good example. You know, we had a big conversation at this conference we didn't expect, which is suicidal empathy, the West, this um declining birth rate. Uh I noticed you've been pretty active about it and open borders and open borders is like let the invaders in. Could all three of those be the same thing? It it seems like there's a number of symptoms of the West being suicidal. The
[00:32:40] most obvious one being the birth rate is not a replacement level. So obviously if that continues indefinitely then the west will literally not reproduce enough to replace itself. But there's other things too. There's the fact that the borders were totally opened to the point where western culture the social fabric start to come apart and you see this especially in Europe where there um you know the indigenous cultures of the UK or France or Germany are starting to um
[00:33:07] potentially be taken over by by cultures of people who are brought in and aren't assimilating. You have crime where, you know, we have this case on social media right now, this young woman, Ire Ina, who's just killed in a senseless way on a subway. Uh, which is horrific enough in and of itself, but then in addition to that, the elite media just for whatever reason just refused to cover it, like it didn't exist. Um, so you have this issue of crime
[00:33:33] that's not being addressed or even acknowledged and no acknowledgement of this. like it's almost like we're trying to deny the reality of the spiral and this Yeah. So you have the you have all these data points um that seem to suggest that um the west uh is suicidal or doesn't you know doesn't seem to want to defend itself or propagate itself. Um look I think everyone in this room thinks that um life is awesome right? I mean it's pretty great and I think
[00:34:04] worth living. Yeah. And when when Alex Karp was here earlier today defending the West, that got some of the loudest applause at the conference. So, uh I guess we probably don't really understand what's going on. We don't really Yeah. What's your take, Elon? Cuz you you know, what's your take on the suicide of the West? Yeah. What's What's I'm very worried about it. Yeah. I'm very worried about it. Um you know,
[00:34:26] I think there's there's just the actions of the West are indistinguishable from suicide. So, but it's and look, at least in America, there's there's there's generally a sense of optimism, but when's the last time you you talked to someone from Europe who lives in Europe who's optimistic? Not for a while. Yeah. Decades, like even one. It's rare. So I I think unless people have a sense of optimism and purpose about the future, they
[00:35:05] suicide might be just what happens. Um like like like having a child is an act of optimism about the future. So uh if you're not optimistic, this Yeah. So, so I think we need to maybe give people a sense of optimism and excitement about the future and and a belief that the future will be better than the past um and they'll be more interested in having kids. Did did religion play a role in the past, Elon, to kind of plate and make folks feel that way
[00:35:40] when they Yeah, I think so. uh the nature abhores a vacuum and if you take away religion then I think you actually you you you get something in its place which is actually worse than what was there before I mean it's like destructive basically you get you get like the white work mind virus filling filling the hole that religion used to have taking the place of of of religion you get these dystopian de facto
[00:36:11] religions um that uh that that are very very self-destructive. Um so I I think perhaps some some sort of re revival of religion or at least what we need is is um some coherent philosophy that people can get excited about. Um you know I mean for me it's a philosophy of curiosity. I'm curious about the nature of the universe and I want to go out there and I want humanity to be out there exploring the stars. Um maybe
[00:36:46] meeting alien civilizations. Uh maybe in some cases we we see the ruins of a long dead alien civilization but they were they were very strong for 10 million years. Um you know the kind of stuff that you see in Star Trek in in a non-dystopian sci-fi book or or movie or show. Um, and so I'm just I have I have a philosophy of curiosity of of like I just want to know what's going on. And and in order to know what's going on, we we must have u an an increase in the in
[00:37:15] the scope and scale of consciousness, we must we must expand uh consciousness. We must grow. We must grow humanity and we must extend humanity in order to comprehend the and to to understand the universe or even what what question should we should ask about the answer that is the universe. Um you know Doug No text Douglas Adams book the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy is actually a a deep book on philosophy
[00:37:44] disguised as humor. Um and what the point he was trying to make in that book was that u the questions are the really the hard part. The answer is the universe. Like the answer is everything you see around you. But but but one of the questions that we don't know to ask. Yeah. Um now now some of the questions I guess I we I do know. I'd like to know is the standard model of physics correct about the origins of the universe? Are we actually 13.8 billion years old? Um how
[00:38:11] does the universe end? Does it end in a heat death or in some other way? Um, you know, a black hole. We might be. Um, Elon, can you talk about the whole sort of simulation question? Are we a simulation? Maybe. Where does the uh where do you think we find the answer first? In AI or in the stars? Because you're pursuing both obviously. Yeah. I I I don't know if if I I hope I hope more people can get behind a
[00:38:47] philosophy of curiosity. Yeah. Because I think it's very exciting. Yeah. Um and and and and inherently optimistic. Um you like because there's there's this amazing sense of wonder about the nature of the universe. And when you just when you uncover some secret in the universe, that's amazing. And you're like a whole world of understanding is opened up. I mean, we we used to not even know where all the continents were. Um, you know, used to
[00:39:22] be like just the map would be there be dragons and like all we know is that when they sailed in that direction, they didn't come back. I mean, the moon base, that's all that's all they knew. I I kind of feel like the moon base or just going to the moon for real this time would be a big step in the right direction. You still have the moon uh planned. What's the status of that? Is is that still on the agenda?