[00:00:00] No text [Music] I believe Optimus is going to be the greatest product ever created by humanity. Elon Musk and his XAI startup have built the largest and most powerful artificial intelligence training supercomputer in the world. As far as I know, there's only one person in the world who could do that. You know, this is an arms race of epic proportions. He's a big thinker. You guys went on Fox the other day with the Doge team. You saw Elon's face nodding while they were speaking with a grin ear to ear. He was
[00:00:32] proud. XAI has acquired X in an old stock transaction. Tesla's first robo taxis are officially on the road. The company's board proposed a new compensation package for the CEO that could pay him just about a trillion dollars in stock. He gets nothing if he doesn't hit the numbers. SpaceX will buy wireless spectrum licenses from Echoar for its Starlink satellite network for about 17 billion. 3 2 1. [Music] There's a
[00:01:12] splash down. How do you have time? this I I I never understand you. Yeah. Well, I do work a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Elon Musk. All right. Good. All right. Where are you? Alto. You're in Palo Alto and um not Washington DC. I'm I'm at Tesla Global Engineering Headquarters in Palo Alto. Yeah. So, no more Washington DC. You're back at work. You're focused. Yeah. Uh, yeah. I haven't been to DC since May. Okay. Uh, that was a that was a hell of a side
[00:01:54] quest. That was a good Any lessons from your time in Washington DC? Uh, the government is basically unfixable. Elon O only. I support David's noble efforts and this uh it's good to it's good to have talented people in the administration uh but at the end of the day um if you look at our national debt which is uh insanely high uh the interest payments exceed the u defense department I guess sorry war department uh budget
[00:02:37] um and um Nikki Bryzy so if AI and robots don't solve our national debt, we're we're toast. No text Which is a great segue. Um, Optimus is um I think going to be the greatest uh product in the history of humanity. What's the progress like and how much of your how many of your cycles are going specifically to Optimus? What's the timeline? I think you're on version three, maybe four. Tell us everything. Uh well,
[00:03:17] yeah, everything would take a long time. We've got time. Um we're we're finalizing the design of Optimus version 3 and uh that that really is going to be a very remarkable robot. Um it will have the essentially the manual dexterity of a human. So meaning a very complex hand. Um the a an AI mind that can navigate and comprehend reality. Um and it will be made in very high volume. Uh those are the three things that are missing. Like if you see any other um robotics uh company, they're
[00:04:03] missing those three things. Those are the three really hard things. Um and uh I I I spent actually at this point um it it might be more of my mental cycles than anything anything else any other single thing on Optimus. Uh that's that's that that's solving for uh real world AI uh all of the electro mechanical issues of Optimus the the supply chain and production challenges of it because we have there is no supply chain that
[00:04:41] exists for humanoid robots. So it has to be we have to recreate it from scratch um and which requires doing a lot of vertical integration. um none of the actuators in Optimus um are available from an existing supply chain. Um so but I I think it is accurate to say that if successful Optimus will be the biggest product ever and the cost of it at scale 2030 $40,000 a robot. What what do you think the first wave of them will cost? And yeah, when will we be able to buy one to work
[00:05:21] on the ranch? I think that the the marginal cost of production once you hit a million units per year uh is probably around the $20,000 range. Uh it it it sort of depends on how much you spend on the AI chip in the in the robot. Um and you need to achieve a lot of efficiencies in the actuators. Uh there are um 26 actuators per arm like 26 electric like motors, gearboxes and power electronics. Um, so, so, but but the the the AI chip will be pretty expensive like that that might
[00:06:09] be like55 or $6,000 of the of the bill of materials, maybe more. Um, and um but but so I but I think at volume at a million units a year, the the production cost is probably on the order of $20,000, maybe 25, something like that. And um price will be as a function of demand. Elon um can you maybe explain to everybody why the hand is so important to get right and why you know the actuator design is so unique and you know why it's so difficult why nobody makes it and why you have to start there
[00:06:47] almost to build the rest of the the robot properly. Well, it turns out the human hands are incredibly they've evolved to this to be this incredibly sophisticated machine. Like the your hand is an in actually a remarkable thing. It's look look closely at your hands and and think of all the things you can do with your hands, which is a lot. I can think of many things. Yeah, I was just thinking about something. You know, your hands are very versatile
[00:07:19] instrument. Yeah, you can give him a high five. Very versatile. Um, you know, you you you can swing a baseball bat, you can thread needles, you you can you put thread in a needle. Uh, you can play the piano with violin. Um, you know, you could disassemble or assemble a car. The hands are incredibly versatile instruments. Um and um most of the muscles of of the hand are are actually in the forearm. So your hand is kind of like a like a like it's like a
[00:07:56] puppet. Like it's mostly a puppet. The mus the muscles are coming from the forearm and they're pulling the tendons uh which are you know also human tendon designs or human human tendon evolution is incredibly good. Um, so you you've got this web of tendons. You you you've got um I think I think the the human hand is something like depending on how you count it, 27 or 28 degrees of freedom per you know in in
[00:08:23] the hand. It's uh it's amazing. So in order to create a robot that can uh be a generalized uh humanoid, you you must solve the hand the hands problem. Yeah. We had uh we had it's got hands, needs hands. And so is it like uh when you were first building Tesla where the supply chain doesn't exist and now you have to go out and find folks to work with and you know build all this vertical integration, get support. Is it is it literally like it's
[00:08:54] just nowhere to be found and you're going to have to build all of this stuff up? Yes, we we we could not actually buy the actuators for any amount of money. they simply didn't exist. Even though there are, I don't know, 10 20,000 electric motors out there of various sizes and shapes. Um, we've had to design uh every electric motor, gearbox um and and the controlling electronics from scratch basically from physics first principles.
[00:09:20] The good news is you've got a lot of experience with factories over the last couple of decades. So, how challenging is this versus Cybert truck model Y Model X Gigafactory? You know, the Yeah. The Fabra Egg known as the Model X. Yeah. Right. Um it's hotter than any any of those things. Okay. Yeah. Much hotter significantly. Yeah. Starship. Yes. Well, more No, not Starship's harder. Okay. So, somewhere between a Model X and a Starship? Yeah. Is it is the What's harder, the hardware
[00:10:03] or the software? Right now, we're struggling with the the final design of the hardware. Like I said, it's really primarily the hand. Not to just just dismiss the rest of the robot. the rest of it's also uh important but but the hands are the hands inclusive of the forearm are a majority of the engineering difficulty of the entire robot and then let's assume you get past the hardware challenges how much do you sort of get
[00:10:31] for free um based on all the progress that's happening with LLMs will you know will consumers just be able to interact with this talk to the robot ask it to do things it'll understand and sort of Oh yeah yeah no problem you're spending a lot of time with any I noticed online. Not not that long. Um maybe I went a little over the top from Bunning Grom Imagine, but uh well, but in all seriousness, those characters and these robots that seems
[00:11:01] to be, you know, like maybe they you could get the embodiment of Annie, I suppose. Yeah. Why why the human form factor, Elon? You could make something that's maybe better than a human or maybe simpler than a human to do specific tasks and maybe better than a human to do more things than a human can do. How do you decide to make it just like a human? Well, if you wanted to do all the things that a human can do, it turns out you
[00:11:25] need a humanoid robot. Um, so if you want to just do a subset, it that's much easier. Um but uh it turns out humans evolved to this the shape and capabilities that we we we have. Um it it it for for good reasons. Uh there actually is that there is like there's value to having five, you know, four fingers and the thumb. Um and even the pinky actually is is quite useful. Um toes are much more aggression walk but but but the fingers
[00:12:06] well also humans humans have designed the world as well. So we designed it for us. So if you can make a humanoid robot it'll be immediately backwards compatible with what we've built the world for. Precisely. Elon there's another there's another part of um the robot. So there's the LLMs, there's the actuation in the No text hands, but also there's the um the silicon that runs it. And there was, you know, Dojo, I think you you posted on X AI5 and AI6, and it just seemed like you
[00:12:38] were incredibly excited about the direction in which the silicon layer was also going. Can you tell us about that and what that is and what what what what are we what are we building here? What is being built? Is it a complement to everything that exists in the world? Is it a potential long-term competitor? What is it? Um, yeah. So, at at Tesla, we basically had two different chip programs. One dojo and one uh dojo on the training side and
[00:13:11] then what we call, you know, AI for it, which just our inference chip. um uh that the AI Force is currently shipping in all vehicles. Um and we're finaliz finalizing the design of AI5 which will be an immense jump from AI4. Um by some metrics the improvement in AI5 will be 40 times better than AI4. Wow. So 40% 40 times. Um and and uh this is because we work so closely at a very fine grade level on the AI software and
[00:13:47] the AI hardware. So we know exactly where the limiting factors are and and um and so effectively the AI hardware and software teams are co-designing the chip. Um so a 40x improvement in the silicon I think then as it as everybody here in the audience experiences it is that just an almost like an order of magnitude increase in the quality of FST and the safety that you experience as a Tesla driver and then the quality of the robot like where does it all manifest when you when you you know bring it up and
[00:14:20] actually get it into production? Yeah to be precise the 40x is on if you say like compared to the worst limitation on AI4 which is running the softmax operation. Yeah we currently have to run softmax in around 40 steps in emulation mode whereas that'll be just be done in a few steps uh natively in AI5. Um AI5 trip will also be u easily handle mixed precision um models. So you don't have it'll dynamically handle mixed precision. There's a bunch of sort of technical stuff that AI will do a lot
[00:14:58] better. Um in terms of of nominal sort of uh raw compute, it's it's eight times more compute. Um about nine times more memory uh roughly five times more memory bandwidth. Um so uh but because we're addressing some core limitations in AI4, you multiply that by that that 8x computer improvement by another 5x improvement because of of uh optimization at a at a at a very fine grain silicon level of things that are currently suboptimal in AI4. That's
[00:15:32] where you get the 40x improvement. You had um I'll keep going, keep going. Uh so now now that said I I'm I am confident that the current uh chips uh AI AI4 chips that are in the cars will uh achieve self-driving safety that is at least two to three times that of of human and and maybe even 10x. Um and the software that uh will be released for that is is coming out over the next few months. So version 14 will be the
[00:16:04] biggest uh upgrade in Tesla software since version 12. Um we are increasing the uh parameter count by an order of magnitude. Um the there's there's there's a lot of uh reinforcement learning that's been used. there's um we we there there there's like you can think of AI sort of as a way of compressing reality and and and some of those compression steps uh we uh were too lossy and and we addressed the lossiness in the compression steps. Um so the these are all software updates that'll that'll go out. So just over
[00:16:43] there updates um your car is going to feel like it is sentient by the end of the year. Yeah, it feels that way already to be honest. Um I saw in the trades that you No text spent about $17 billion on some spectrum and that um yeah um so some couch change um to enable your satellites and the Starlink network to connect directly with phones. What will that look like in a year or two? Are we going to drop our Verizon
[00:17:15] account and just expand our Starlink account? Uh, thank you. We're kind of hoping cuz Verizon kind of sucks. How How many of you want a Starlink phone? Who wants a Starlink phone? Is it Is it technically possible? I know you can't see it, but it's everyone. Yeah, All right, cool. Um so this is a kind of a long-term thing. Uh it it will allow SpaceX to h uh deliver high bandwidth connectivity directly from the satellites to the phones. Um but uh
[00:17:57] there are hardware changes that need to happen in the phone. So the since these frequencies are not supported in current phones uh that the chipset has to be modified to add these frequencies um and that probably is a 2-year time frame. So the phones that um are able to use the spectrum that was acquired probably start shipping in around 2 years. Um and um and then we also need to build the satellites that are going to communicate on those frequencies. So, in parallel, we're building the satellites and
[00:18:28] working with the handset makers to add these frequencies to the phones. Um, and then the the satellites and the phones will then handshake very well to achieve high bandwidth connectivity. But the net effect is that you should be able to watch uh videos uh anywhere on your phone. Wow. And it's going to be crazy. And what and do these do these frequencies would they work indoors inside buildings, you know,
[00:18:53] like like your phone currently does? Okay. And so will you be able to have basically like if you if if you're in a building with a with a like a a thick metal roof then No. But um no the the same types of of Yeah. Normal normal homes. Yes. Yes. Elon is your vision for this that instead of you know having an AT&T account or and then roaming when you're in the UK or you're in India. It's just we could have one direct deal with
[00:19:18] Starlink. It works all over the world eventually. Not today but at some point. Is that the end goal? That basically we don't need a regional carrier. We have a global carrier and that would be you. Uh that that would be one of the options. To be clear, we're not going to put the other carriers out of business. They're still going to be around cuz they they own a lot of Spectrum. So, uh there's uh but but yes, you you should
[00:19:42] be able to have a Starlink uh like you have like you have an AT&T or T-Mobile or Verizon or whatever, you should be you could have a you know account with Starlink that uh works with your you know Starlink uh antenna at home uh free Wi-Fi as well as on your phone and um yeah it would be a comprehensive solution for high bandwidth at home and for high bandwidth direct to sell. Could you buy some carriers to have more spectrum? Maybe you could buy Verizon.
[00:20:14] Not out of the question. I suppose it that may happen. Let's talk about um let's talk about Starship. You just had a really what appeared to be a phenomenal um launch. H how close is it to, you know, being predictable and ready to go in a commercial setting? I I I think we'll recover the ship next year. Um we've got one more launch of the um Starlink version two uh uh stack that there's only one one uh booster and ship left that's in the
[00:20:54] version two uh design. Uh and then thereafter it's it's version three which is a gigantic upgrade cuz that's got Raptor 3. Um, and pretty much everything changes on the rocket with version 3. Um, so version 3, you know, might have some initial teething pains, uh, cuz it's such a radical redesign. Uh, but, uh, it's it's capable of over 100 tons to orbit fully reusable. Um, and I think it's I think I think um
[00:21:26] unless we have unless we have some very major setbacks, uh, SpaceX will demonstrate uh, full reusability next year uh, catching both the booster and the ship um, and being able to deliver over 100 tons to a useful orbit. What does the best rocket in the world do now in terms of tonnage to space? Uh well in terms of uh sort of commercial rockets there's there's Falcon Heavy. Yeah. Uh which will do uh in um with with side booster reuse uh will