[00:14:56] if you carried it on your hand, the glass breaks, yet you can smash a meteor into it when it's laid and laminated and nothing happens. It's like the It's like So my point is in every single dimension of what the earthly economy looks like, it's now going to go and get rebuilt in space. There will be a FedEx of space. There'll be a MK of space. There'll be a I don't know what the garbage collection companies are. Allied Waste of Space.
[00:15:24] There's going to be everything of space that exists in the United States. Freeberg just talked about the Freeport Macaran of space. Like everything >> and that we owe to him. >> Yeah. And I hope he gets that credit because the amount of businesses I think that can get created and the amount of value that will be created on top of SpaceX's shoulders is vast. It's the beginning of the beginning of the beginning and it's going to create
[00:15:52] enormous opportunities for people who are smart and resourceful. >> And Freeberg, maybe you could comment on the PGMs, the palladium that's on asteroids and just how they're rare here on Earth. If we had an unlimited supply or a continuous supply of those minerals, you know, what what could the downstream effect of that be? And then what if we find things in space that we are unaware of? There are unknown unknowns. Correct, Freeberg, when you
[00:16:21] start to conceptualize this. I do think like the asteroid mining is an interesting concept but I do think it's going to be more likely that we'll have the need for infrastructure so we can produce ores and refine and so on versus you know bringing chunky rock back. I think that you could do this very effectively on the moon. The primary elements that are missing from the moon that we have on the earth are you know
[00:16:43] carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen. basically these things that make life on Earth. But that's because they primarily exist in a gaseous form and the Earth has enough gravity to retain those gases and have an atmosphere. The moon is too small to maintain an atmosphere. The gravity is too little. So those gases all kind of went away. They evaporated away in the early formation of the Earth and the Moon. But on the moon, there's
[00:17:09] everything else. There's aluminum, there's silicon, there's palladium, there's platinum, there's gold, there's everything you possibly need. So, I think as we do the calculus on all of this, we'll end up realizing that the moon is probably the best frontier. One of the biggest issues is dissipating heat because you don't have an atmosphere. But theoretically, you could recapture that heat and use like helium
[00:17:30] gas or something to turn a turbine and actually run production of even more electricity. You just put a couple solar panels out. I did the math on this. It's like 500 square meters of solar panels will let you run a 4 km mass driver to ship material back to the earth every 10 to 15 minutes. One ton of material every 10 to 15 minutes >> on the sled you described earlier that Elon's been talking about as well. Yeah.
[00:17:51] >> So you could think about having autonomous mining vehicles deployed on the moon processing the ore and then sending completely processed material back. And then for a heat shield for re-entry to the earth you just use moon rock. You only need about 15 cm of moon rock at the front of the package and then that'll burn up when it re-enters the atmosphere and the package, you know, kind of parachutes down and lands
[00:18:11] where you want it to land in your industrial shipyard or whatever. So there's just like, you know, I think we'll we'll continue to kind of iterate on this. I'm speculating in a bunch of different ways. >> The beginning the beginning of the beginning gosh I mean can you imagine having a moon base in America >> going like like Yeah. Well, imagine Jacob like permanently present on the moon is just and factories on the moon
[00:18:31] is just wild to consider. >> Can you guys just imagine like the middle or the early 19th century like the late 1700s, early 1800s in America and there's like all this land out on the west and like whatever people were contemplating in that moment about what they were going to go do with that land on the west and they started to travel west their minds would have been blown to see what happened 100 years later or
[00:18:53] now 150 years later. You know, like it's just that's the moment that we're at right now. And the railroads are being built to get us to this next great frontier. They're being laid out before us. And the opportunity is really limited only by our imagination. And before we would have never been able to tackle these great frontiers, but this magical new technology came about called robots. And these robots are are going
[00:19:16] to allow us to actually make use of these frontiers and explore them and develop them. And that's why this is such an incredible moment where this intersection of autonomy and robotics and space traversal kind of drive forward humanity into this new era. And it's again, this is not a zero sum game. This is expanding humanity's potential, expanding production, which is so different than the way the socialists on
[00:19:39] Earth are talking about it where everyone's fighting against progress because they think that progress is some people taking things from other people. And the truth is, it's about everyone building stuff that's new and everyone benefiting from this. >> I'm gonna open a hotel casino in the space. >> Go. That'd be so serious. >> Serious. >> Absolutely. >> You think it's funny, but I am. >> I would love that. >> Yeah. And then no rake. No rake. No
[00:20:02] gravity. No rake. No gravity. Bob, >> no tax on tips or poker winnings. I love it. Whoever implements the red light district in space is going to become a trillionaire. >> Oh, wow. That's Yeah, with the robotics and the uh pleasure droids, replicants. Oh, man. It could get crazy. All right. Well, let's just hope you're we're not the Donner party on the way there. Um >> 2026, >> don't worry. You'll be you'll be safely
[00:20:30] on the ground >> shing syndicates. You'll be fine. I >> I'll tell you something. Uh thank you. Shout out the syndicate.com apply to join me in great companies. >> Do you listen? I'm still You guys might be retiring, but I'm in the game. I'm in the arena trying things. >> I'm selling I'm selling enterprise software every day. That's what >> I mean. He literally Truman said, &quot;Hey, Jake, can we wrap this up real quick cuz
[00:20:53] I got to get on a sales call. I got a discovery call.&quot; >> Listen, I like the fact that we're all working. We're working into our 50s. I love it. Hey, 2026 could be an alltime record for IPOs. Looks like it will be Anthropic, OpenAI, Data Bricks. I mean these are all nine and possibly 10 figure IPOs in terms of the valuations. Long tale of other companies uh Stripe, Cerebrus, Canva, Discord, lots of people waiting. Here's
[00:21:25] your Poly Market. SpaceX 94% obviously that looks like it's uh we just talked about that for 20 minutes. Anthropic 41% and people were saying 70% in February, OpenAI 38%, data bricks 32%. People are wondering what could um derail this. Obviously we we we have a very pro business group of people in Washington DC, but you have potentially this uh Iran war and we'll talk about that later in the program could potentially push us back if god forbid
[00:21:55] it was to spiral or there was a recession. Uh maybe the Democrats you know, taking control of Congress, Senate, etc. What are your thoughts here on the flurry of potential IPOs? We're talking about trillions of dollars of companies, Chimath. And if that does happen, let's start talking second and third order impact of of that kind of distribution chain that could happen for LPS and then just also all these employees. Uh, you know, and then a
[00:22:22] currency for these companies. We go from a mag 7 to a MAG 17. It looks like >> I think that we have a bit of a risk problem. And I think this is why it makes so much sense for Elon to get out first. If you think about appetite as equivalent to like a person at a Thanksgiving dinner, when you first come in and you see all of this stuff, it's so plentiful. Your eyes are bigger than your stomach. And I think in a moment
[00:22:48] like that, you want to be the one that is consumed first. M >> and I think the risk increases when you are at the tail end because the risk is that the diners will run out of space and if you use that fills up yeah >> and if you use that analogy I think the reason why people's plates will get full are probably twofold and maybe three-fold the first and most important thing is there's enough tactical event risk that
[00:23:20] people generally want to be risk off and have more margin of safety. I think the Iran thing is kind of in there, but I think the big tactical event risk is that we have a lot of these really important financial moments tied to this concept of AGI, ASI, I don't know if you saw the OpenAI announcement on their final terms, but you know, a huge slug of Amazon's capital is tied to a 2028 IPO or a moment that calls for this. Then there
[00:23:52] was a bunch of leaked text messages or whatever that said that there's a version of some AGI running inside of anthropic. Then there was the fact that, you know, the leak of claude code basically demonstrated that they had feature flagged away a bunch of improvements. So if you stack up all these improvements, they're actually much further ahead than the models realized. If you take all of that as a basket, it goes back to what I said last
[00:24:17] week, which is we have a real pricing problem. If AGI is real, the durability of most companies is slim to none. If AGI is not real, then the fundraising capacity of these companies that are now raising hundreds of billions of dollars needs to get questioned and inspected thoroughly. History will sort out which one is right. But both cannot be right. So in that vein, I actually think Jal, I don't think we're going to have like
[00:24:43] these quote unquote blockbuster stream of IPOs. I think what happens is SpaceX is going to get out. They're going to do great and then maybe the next one does good to great, then the next one will do good and then the appetite runs out because you just can't absorb incrementally trillions of dollars of new demand. And if you think about it, where is it going to come from? Is it going to come from the sidelines? I don't know. I think
[00:25:09] it's more of a reallocation exercise. But if you look at the S&amp;P, well, most people are now defensively moving away from these kinds of things towards the things that are more protected, what the industry calls halo, right? High asset, low obsolescence kind of businesses. Those things trade for zero today, Jason. >> You could buy hundreds of millions of dollars of year of cash flow for two to five times right now in the stock
[00:25:33] market. And so why are you gonna go way out on the risk curve and buy something at 200 times revs, let alone earnings? >> Yeah. The the >> So I don't know. I'm I'm more in the camp of I think it's good to be first. It's pretty decent to be second, but if I were you, I would get the heck out and get public and get your money and fortify your balance sheet ASAP because I think the risk builds the further down the IPO chain you're in. Yeah. There's
[00:26:03] going to be a competition for investor dollars, whether it's retail or it's institutional or sovereign wealth funds. They're going to have a lot of choices here. Do you want to be in Nvidia? Do you want to be in SpaceX? Maybe you have to rotate out of Amazon or Google or Disney in order to take on those opportunities. And that's going to be a great competition. probably we could see a lot of these IPOs Freedberg trade
[00:26:28] below their IPO price in the year or two after they come out and get repriced. Yeah, like we've seen before. I think the market's going to need to find a price. Remember, the share owners in a lot of these companies have held on to these shares for a long period of time and the valuations are extraordinary. I mean, hundreds of billions of dollars in market value coming to market liquid for the first time. Some of these investors
[00:26:52] dep regardless of whatever their entry price was are going to be looking for liquidity. So there's only so much capital to absorb those shares on the buy side. Meaning if the buyers and the bid is not there to fulfill all of the selling then you're going to see the share price decline and the market's going to find a price. And so I I think this idea that like an IPO is, you know, just a step in driving the price or
[00:27:18] value of a company up is a pretty false sense. And I think we'll realize it's pretty false as some of these IPOs take place because there is so much pent-up selling demand. There is so much value that's being created. There's going to be so much selling pressure and then there's going to be very little buying activity on some of these because anyone that could have bought at scale on the buy side postpublic were already in a
[00:27:41] lot of these companies pre-public as private companies and so I don't know who the big buyers are that everyone's expecting are going to show up. They're probably thinking hey it's going to be retail retail. Yeah. I mean it's like >> yeah but how much money does retail have left? I mean you if you look at retail investors they have a certain amount of powder and it's probably deployed. It's not like they have unlimited places to
[00:28:01] look for that. And you know, there's some evidence of this. Bloomberg ran an article on Wednesday. We tape on Thursday, folks. And you get to listen to the pot on Fridays. Open AAI is falling out of favor with secondary buyers. According to a report, OpenAI investors can't find buyers at the new $850 billion valuation that Shimoth referenced earlier, investors Bloomberg spoke to are looking to sell $600 million worth of shares. people are
[00:28:28] looking for liquidity and said they were institutional investors. Anthropic currently valued at 300 billion is seeing major secondary bids at a $600 billion valuation. So I think Chimoth what this shows us is you're correct. They're you know OpenAI and Anthropic are the two next cards. That's your turn in river folks. If SpaceX is the flop and maybe they're massively overvalued right now. Maybe they're three four 500
[00:28:52] million billion dollar companies not trillion dollar companies. And if you look at the amount of revenue 24 billion for uh open AI at 852 billion that's 35 times price to sales ratio and that is a absurd price to sales ratio depending on if the growth keeps happening and as you referenced chimoth what if we are at artificial general intelligence AGI and the moes on these things is dimminimous or or there is no moat anthropic just
[00:29:21] got hacked all their secrets are out Somebody transmuted the code into another language, posted it on GitHub, can't be stopped. I don't know if you saw that story, Freeberg, but this is kind of mind-blowing. Somebody took the anthropic code, I don't know what it was written in, and then basically just put it into another language, reposted it. If Anthropic comes and says, &quot;Hey, you can't do that.&quot; Well, that negates their
[00:29:47] argument, Chimamoth, that they're allowed to train on other people's data and then spit out a different output. So this is a very weird moment in time, right? >> It is. I think you're you're bringing up a bunch of different points, so let me just sort them out in the order that I think is important. >> Is there a market for open AI at 800 billion? Yes, and there should be. When I read that press release, my mind was
[00:30:09] blown. This is like I've never seen a business like this. And I'd say the same thing of Anthropic. What an incredible thing that both of these two companies have been able to create. Nobody in the history of the world has ever seen two businesses like this at this scale. Okay, it's unbelievable. These are trillion dollar companies. They both are. And they both deserve to be. How profitable they are, I don't know. What their terminal
[00:30:39] valuation is, I don't know. What will people pay for at IPO? I don't know. But Nick, I just shared something with you. These two companies need to get out as quickly as possible. And the reason is every single company that comes after it, all those companies that you just named, Jason, are not nearly as important and do not need the money nearly as badly as these guys do. And where will it come from? The specific
[00:31:03] answer to your question when you look at this chart is the tech sector PE is going to shrink faster in my opinion than the non- tech PE. And the reason is because as these companies come out the combination of SpaceX, OpenAI and Anthropic, all three are baking an AI technology that first and foremost will go after the tech sector. It will eliminate and it will cannibalize and it will erode most of the moes that support this
[00:31:35] differential trading. So if I were a betting man, my first bet is as those three companies come out, these software businesses are going to approach the rest of the non- tech PE. Okay, that's the first step that has to happen. So the rate of change of of the multiple erosion will basically say to the world, hey, these tech companies are I don't know, I'll buy the first five or six years of this story, but I'm not