[00:29:21] got hacked all their secrets are out Somebody transmuted the code into another language, posted it on GitHub, can't be stopped. I don't know if you saw that story, Freeberg, but this is kind of mind-blowing. Somebody took the anthropic code, I don't know what it was written in, and then basically just put it into another language, reposted it. If Anthropic comes and says, &quot;Hey, you can't do that.&quot; Well, that negates their
[00:29:47] argument, Chimamoth, that they're allowed to train on other people's data and then spit out a different output. So this is a very weird moment in time, right? >> It is. I think you're you're bringing up a bunch of different points, so let me just sort them out in the order that I think is important. >> Is there a market for open AI at 800 billion? Yes, and there should be. When I read that press release, my mind was
[00:30:09] blown. This is like I've never seen a business like this. And I'd say the same thing of Anthropic. What an incredible thing that both of these two companies have been able to create. Nobody in the history of the world has ever seen two businesses like this at this scale. Okay, it's unbelievable. These are trillion dollar companies. They both are. And they both deserve to be. How profitable they are, I don't know. What their terminal
[00:30:39] valuation is, I don't know. What will people pay for at IPO? I don't know. But Nick, I just shared something with you. These two companies need to get out as quickly as possible. And the reason is every single company that comes after it, all those companies that you just named, Jason, are not nearly as important and do not need the money nearly as badly as these guys do. And where will it come from? The specific
[00:31:03] answer to your question when you look at this chart is the tech sector PE is going to shrink faster in my opinion than the non- tech PE. And the reason is because as these companies come out the combination of SpaceX, OpenAI and Anthropic, all three are baking an AI technology that first and foremost will go after the tech sector. It will eliminate and it will cannibalize and it will erode most of the moes that support this
[00:31:35] differential trading. So if I were a betting man, my first bet is as those three companies come out, these software businesses are going to approach the rest of the non- tech PE. Okay, that's the first step that has to happen. So the rate of change of of the multiple erosion will basically say to the world, hey, these tech companies are I don't know, I'll buy the first five or six years of this story, but I'm not
[00:32:01] buying year 15 of this anymore because these three guys are going to build something. So that's where the money comes from. That's why I think after SpaceX, these two guys need to get their act together, file quickly, get out and just get the money, fortify their balance sheets, and be in a position. >> Everything that happens after that is a total coin toss because once these three companies are public, I think the blue
[00:32:23] line will converge to the orange line and it's going to be nasty. >> Yeah. Freeberg, just looking at this, do you believe that secondary market is a canary in the coal mine here with Open AI? Because if we we've and we've gone through this year after year here. These are exceptional businesses. They've grown incredible. Customers love their products, but the burn is brutal. The circular financing problem is still out
[00:32:46] there. Like what's reality here? The and that's going to all come out when these S1s get filed and they're publicly traded companies and they have quarterly earnings reports. Market share for these could be flipping. Anthropic and and Gemini, other players coming into the market. What are your thoughts here on uh anthropic and open AI post the SpaceX IPO? >> Like I said, there's only so much capital in the world. So, I do think one
[00:33:14] of the things that's probably being underestimated at the moment is the liquidity crunch that's ahead for capital intensive technology businesses given the conflict in the Middle East. I don't think that Qatar and certain Saudi offices and certain offices in UAE and Oman are as eager as they were or you know have been to provide large slugs of capital to support these initiatives and remember that capital moves its way
[00:33:44] through the markets whether it's through JP Morgan and a loan to Soft Bank which then gets paid to open AAI at the end of the day there has to be unencumbered debtfree capital that's being provided to these systems. from somewhere in the world. And if you trace all of it back, like a large chunk of it has historically in the last couple of years come from Middle East sovereigns and family offices. And I think that those are likely going to
[00:34:07] tighten up in the near term. That being the case, there's probably less demand. I do think that there's a lot of secondary demand coming from family offices in Europe and Singapore, places like that that that generally have not had great access or early stage access to private companies. But at some point, there's only so much demand there. So I don't know like how far this is going to go or when this capital crunch that's
[00:34:28] going to emerge. I think from the Middle East I don't think we've really felt the shock wave yet on what's happening because remember a lot of these Middle East capital commitments were made in the last cycle as LP commitments or whatever. And you know if they stop if they downscale LP commitments or they stop doing primary and secondary transactions you know it takes a little bit of time before the market feels that
[00:34:48] and then it's like oh the reliable goto are gone and a lot of the big funds the the mega funds that are out there >> totally >> that have Middle East LPS are gone and suddenly everyone's going to be like whoa and the shock wave will hit. So let's see it is a risk for the United States because China I don't think is going to be as challenged. We're so dependent on Middle East capital. It may be that China has an a capital advantage
[00:35:13] actually going into this next phase. >> I mean, and we talked about forcing your >> come into play here if this Iran thing spirals, god forbid, out of control >> or gets worse. People could say, you know what, we're going to downscale our commitments and hey, there's a war, so we don't have to fund. I >> think the markets I think the markets have shaked that off, Jason. I don't think that they they view this Iran
[00:35:33] thing as a big thing. I think the big event risk in the market is is AI real or not real? And if it's real, what are all of these companies worth? That is the big sort of damices over the stock market. >> Yeah. All right. Well, that's a good segue, I think, into talking uh a bit about Iran. We took the week off from it last week and we're going to catch up. >> By the way, not because we just to be clear, not because we intended to, which
[00:35:57] all the comments railed us on, but we literally Jason did a terrible job moderating. It was on the freaking docket. We were supposed to talk about it. We didn't get to it. He dialed it in and we went right in. >> He dialed it in. It's clearly my fault. Um, >> he DMV it. He, you know, it's like I'm just protecting Trump. I'm out here getting cover for Trump's mistakes. >> Yeah. >> Everybody knows I'm in the pocket of
[00:36:21] President Trump. >> Take a ticket. Take a ticket. Oh, you have an issue. Okay. Well, you're issue number 17. >> Trump DM'd me and said, &quot;Can you please take this off the docket?&quot; I was like, &quot;You got to bust.&quot; >> And then you're like, &quot;Oh, sorry. Office is closed. Come back tomorrow. Today is day 34 of the Iran War slmilitary operation. Trump addressed the nation Wednesday night for a brisk 18 minutes.
[00:36:42] Here's a 40 secondond clip. >> We're now totally independent of the Middle East. And yet, we are there to help. We don't have to be there. We don't need their oil. We don't need anything they have, but we're there to help our allies. For years, everyone has said that Iran cannot have nuclear weapons. But in the end, those are just words if you're not willing to take action when the time comes. Our objectives are very simple and clear. We
[00:37:11] are systematically dismantling the regime's ability to threaten America or project power outside of their borders. And tonight, I'm pleased to say that these core strategic objectives are nearing completion. >> All right, the costs here are mounting. Uh war is a very serious business. 13 American service members have tragically died. Over 200 have been injured. On the other side of the ledger, 3,500 Iranians
[00:37:37] have died, including 1,600 civilians and over 200 children. 1,200 people in Lebanon have died from Israeli strikes. And we now have 50,000 troops deployed to the Middle East. Chances of a ground invasion are increasing. War has cost $70 billion so far. That's assuming $2 billion a day, which there seems to be consensus on via the Department of War. Pentagon has asked Congress for another $200 billion. To put that in context, the war in
[00:38:13] Ukraine was $113 billion in the first year. This could quickly exceed it when we hit 50 days. This isn't cheap. There are lots of costs. Here's uh your poly market on a ceasefire. 25% chance of a ceasefire by the end of April, 47 chance by the end of May. The sharps are thinking this could wrap up, but ground invasion, which would be just really impactful. I think 63% chance by the end of April, 71 chance by the end of
[00:38:47] December. We're going to get into the second order effects, but what do you think, Chimamoth? Uh, this obviously is super unpopular war. >> I think two things. And the president kind of alluded to one that I think is very important, which is if you are not energy independent, you are at risk. And I don't know how many more examples now that world leaders need to be shown to get their acts together. So if the
[00:39:12] Ukraine Russian conflict didn't show Europe, then this should show not just Europe, but the rest of the world. You need to be in control of your own energy infrastructure and energy independence because stuff happens in the world and you're not always in control or can shape how that stuff can indirectly or directly affect you. The United States has energy independence. It's an incredible situation. What was interesting to me is
[00:39:38] if you look at Europe, you know, they gutted a couple of their energy markets and they essentially seated control to a combination of very expensive imports and China. They did that in markets like nuclear where they just went out of it. They did that in things like Nack Gas where again we can debate but where where did Nordstream 2 go? We don't know. And they did that in things like solar where they just gutted all of the
[00:40:04] credits. But what's interesting is they're starting to turn that around. I think Italy just reintroduced effectively what's called investment tax credits. Spain just did as well. Germany is restarting nuclear. So if you just look at the the last few months, just that change is incredibly important because our largest ally Europe should be fundamentally energyindependent so that they preserve complete and total
[00:40:34] optionality like we do in how we respond to these situations. That I think is a is a critical thing that is a positive outcome of what's happening. And then the second Jason, which I think is a huge question mark and it builds on what Freeberg said before, the Middle Eastern states, specifically the UAE and Saudi, Qatar, Kuwait, they are our most important financing and banking partner in the future. And I think we need to see a conclusive
[00:41:06] end to this war because they need to be in a position to monetize these critical assets. Because at the same time, if you see these big pools of demand start to become energy independent by either accelerating nuclear, but I again that's just problematic and slow, but frankly they're just going to ramp up solar. That's the only way that you can dispatch energy quickly. I think what that does is it decreases hydrocarbon
[00:41:30] demand over the long run. That then decreases the monetization capacity for these countries. So if you put these two things together, all of these folks in the region want safety, security, and they need a quick end to this thing now. >> Okay. >> And I think that they're more incentivized to put boots on the ground, Jason, than America is. That's the point I was trying to make. Freeberg, let's talk a little bit about fertilizer.
[00:41:54] You had brought up when we had the start of the Ukraine war. Hey, this is the bread basket. We could have a massive famine. Thankfully, that was avoided. There were carveouts for getting wheat and and other crops out of Ukraine, but here we are again with a significant amount of fertilizer comes out of that region and it's not flowing right now. Do you have concerns this time around that we could see something similar?
[00:42:23] >> Fertilizer is made up of three elements. There's different fertilizers. The one element is N for nitrogen, P for phosphorus, and K for potassium. Ukraine is the largest producer of the K, the potassium, the pot ash, but the N in fertilizer is nitrogen. And that is about 60% of what goes into the ground. That's 60 to 65% of global fertilizer is the nitrogen. That's what really drives agricultural productivity.
[00:42:53] And we need nitrogen fertilizer to grow crops everywhere on Earth that we're growing crops to feed people at scale. That nitrogen is primarily made where natural gas is produced and processed. And the reason is that they use the natural gas as an input to the production process. They get the the carbon, the hydrogen, the oxygen, and then they compress, remember 70% of our atmosphere is made up of nitrogen gas.
[00:43:19] So they compress the nitrogen in the air to 200 times atmospheric pressure, run it over a electrical current with a metal catalyst, and you break apart the N2. you have just single nitrogen atoms and then you combine it back and you end up getting ammonia out of the other end. That's why nitrogen fertilizers are produced where natural gas is processed. So the Middle East obviously is a massive producer particularly in Qatar
[00:43:45] of natural gas and that's why so much of the world's nitrogen fertilizer is made in the Middle East. In fact, about 35% of the world's nitrogen fertilizer goes through the straight of Hormuz, and it is then shipped to countries around the world that farm and that need it to grow their crops. The swing producer in the world is China. China historically makes about 15% of the world's nitrogen fertilizer. And when the war started a
[00:44:10] few days after it began, China shut down exports of their nitrogen fertilizer. And so they basically choked out the rest of the world. And so when the straight of Hormuz shut the nitrogen stopped flowing here you can see the price spike that happened. So as the the war began this is ura. URA is the solid form of nitrogen fertilizer. So URA was trading at about 350 bucks a ton before the the conflict kind of took off and it
[00:44:36] continues to spike up. It reached over $700 a ton in the last two days. And this is really really really impactful. It's not just like oh the price is double. Number one, there's a supply deficiency. So farmers in places like Africa and South Asia are not getting the ura that they need to farm. That is going to have a massive follow-on problem. And in markets where they have access because the price has spiked like
[00:45:01] in the United States, our biggest crop is corn. You need about 200 pounds of that ura per acre for corn. And that cost basically makes you unprofitable. There is no way you can make a profitable crop of corn. The other thing that China did at the same time is they stopped buying corn. So corn prices would normally spike up and corn prices have remained low while the input prices have spiked for American farmers. So
[00:45:24] American farmers are in a real pickle. Fortunately for this spring planting, which is happening right now, about twothirds of American farmers had already secured their fertilizer before the this began, but a third did not and they're switching crops typically to soybeans. But we have a fall planting coming up in a couple of months here and the choke points on production is going to keep prices very high. In the United
[00:45:48] States, we make a lot of our own ammonia at our natural gas facilities in places like Oklahoma and Texas and Wyoming and other places and then it ships directly to the farms. But the cost is so high because of the global market that it's going to become very hard for farmers to make a profit. And around the world there are many farmers, millions and millions of farmers that can't access this fertilizer now. So the choke point
[00:46:09] in the straight of Hormuz is turning out to be a real critical global food supply crisis yet again similar to Ukraine. And remember there was about 400 million people following the Ukraine war globally that we saw enter into a state of malnourishment. This means more than one year of,200 calories or less per day for a year. 400 million people after Ukraine. So coming out of this crisis it could be even more severe given the
[00:46:33] criticality of nitrogen based fertilizers and the shutdown of the straight. Let me make two more points on this. You would think, okay, we'll make more nitrogen fertilizer. The facilities take at least three to five years to fix when they break, which is what just happened in Qatar. That facility got damaged, the main facility that's being used to make fertilizer. So that is the largest producer of ura in the world.