[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world. It's the all-in podcast. David Saxs couldn't make it this week, but we have the trio. David Freeberg is here, your Sultan of Science, Jim Polatia. SpaceX filed confidentially to go public on April 1st, targeting a 1.75 trillion with the T valuation. When SpaceX goes public, if it's at that $ 1.75 uh trillion dollar valuation, so weird to say trillion dollar valuation
[00:00:31] for an IPO, uh they would be the eighth largest company in the world, right behind TSMC and Saudi Aramco. They're both worth $1.7. Uh at the taping of this podcast, Tesla is number 10 with $1.37 trillion valuation. Hey, if you were to combine those two, as many people are speculating, will happen at some point and you can buy the stock ticker E, that would be a $3.1 trillion company, and that would make them the
[00:00:59] fourth largest company ahead of Microsoft. They're aiming to raise Chomoth 75 billion, which would be the by far the biggest raise ever in an IPO. Uh, expected to go out in June. I think they were trying to hit the 420 date because that would have been even more hilarious, but uh they're not going to be able to do that. SpaceX uh recently acquired X.AI for 250 billion. That includes X and Twitter and the XAI large language model AI company
[00:01:26] Starlink, generating between 50 and 80% of SpaceX's revenue. We'll have all those details shortly. Um and it'll be close to $20 billion a year according to reports. Launch of rockets is the other 40% of the business, 5 billion in 2024 according to reports. Total revenue 2025 15 to6 billion with 8 billion in profit according to Reuters. So let's stop there uh and we're going to talk about all the other IPOs that could be coming.
[00:01:54] Uh Chamal, I think people really want to know and you may have mentioned this on an earlier episode. What are the chances that Tesla after if this IPO goes well that Tesla and SpaceX could wind up being the same company? We saw they're collaborating >> on a fab 100% is what you're putting it on. >> Okay. >> Okay. Sorry. Let me let me be clear. 99.999%. >> Okay. What will that mean when if those two companies or when those two
[00:02:22] companies merge? One of the great things that happened in my career was there was a point where you know how like you grind at a level and then you know you just get exposed to things at a different level and then you grind for years and you get exposed to things at yet another level. In one of those steps, I was very fortunate to be introduced by Thomas Lefant actually to the head of Wtel Lipton. >> This is a law firm
[00:02:48] >> law firm and his name is Ed Hurley and he said this is the most important well-known well-run powerful law firm in America. Then I looked at the transactions and they're just in the middle of everything. And now, you know, my lawyer, Raj Narian, who does everything for me, one of the senior partners at Wakdal, I can attest are incredible. And they said to me in the middle of all of this stuff when I was doing a bunch of deals,
[00:03:17] they said, &quot;Just get ready to pay a tax.&quot; And I said, &quot;What does that mean?&quot; They said the way that the American capital markets are set up is both that you can be incredibly creative and do incredible things, but and we talked about this a little bit last week, there's a bunch of tort that allows folks to hang around the hoop and get paid no matter what. You see this in all IPOs. Shareholder lawsuits abound and
[00:03:43] they try to create a class out of it. And the reason they do that is that there's DNO insurance that then will pay out some number of millions of dollars. The attorneys take 40 or 50% and then these plaintiffs get a few bucks. You saw how egregious this tort manipulation was when this guy with 10 shares sued Elon's comp package at Tesla and won. And what was that really? That was the trial lawyers trying to get paid
[00:04:06] hundreds of millions of dollars by exploiting a scene. Call it what >> it was a shakeddown. Why am I bringing this up? If you take the the Raj and Ed example of this, this SpaceX IPO is going to set up a couple of things. The first is there's going to be the natural noise in the market and Elon will have to sort through all of the little ticky tacky things. But the most important positive thing that will happen from the
[00:04:29] IPO is a validated external marktomarket valuation of SpaceX. and the market every day in real time gives you a valid marktomarket assessment of the value of Tesla. And this allows you to put these two things together to minimize these losses. >> And I think that that's what Elon really needs. It'll make his life tremendously simpler from a governance perspective. It'll make the companies and this quibbling about his time a non-issue
[00:05:06] because again nobody talks about Zuck or Satya or Sundar or Jensen allocating time across various projects inside of Meta or Google or Microsoft or Nvidia. nor should they really make this claim from Elon because as you're seeing there's actually an enormous overlap and commonality to the various things that he is doing. He's building the robots but they're used inside of SpaceX. He's building a terrafab they're used inside of Tesla.
[00:05:37] He's building XAI they're used across both. So I think we need to do this. It'll minimize the shareholder noise because it'll give less room to somebody that says, &quot;Hey, he set evaluation out of thin air.&quot; Well, >> but dollars to donuts, these things are going to merge >> and it speaks to the singularity that's going on right now. >> You know, you had a car company, you had a space company. Okay, that was a pretty
[00:06:00] How do those two things overlap? And it's like AI data centers in space. Where do you get chips from? and then actually going to raw materials inside of one factory going out the other and having discussed it with Elon many times when he learned you know at Tesla or SpaceX about advanced materials informed different products at the different companies and now you just you'll have all of that in one place and then you
[00:06:24] think about the brain trust that he built at those two companies plus boring company plus Neuralink if they're all in there all this cross-disciplinary learning is going to compound and compound and compound. Elon knows more about factories than probably >> anybody >> anybody like some people in China who have you know >> Foxcon knows a lot about factories you know so there are some people who know as much or or probably even a little bit
[00:06:48] more about some aspects of it but that's a true advantage of bringing those two teams together and you saw it people would go from one company to the other Freeberg my question for you very acutely with your NASA hat and uh you know your your background today is 20 years ago He he started trying to get to space with SpaceX and here we go. There's more rockets going off in a month now than there are days in the
[00:07:13] month for for the entire country and he's got rockets going up every 2 or 3 days. You can just basically hop on a SpaceX flight and get to space. Maybe you could just use your vision there to tell the audience what could things look like in another 20 years if SpaceX continues at this cadence or even, you know, goes faster because of AI. Well, this week's a pretty important milestone for that point because we just launched
[00:07:39] Artemis 2 yesterday, which is man's returning to the moon. So, the United States shipped this rocket with four astronauts on board. They're going to do an orbit around the Earth, head to the moon, come back around, and come back to Earth in anticipation of landing on the moon in about 2 years. And getting to the moon, I think, is going to be very important. Not just because there's this important social milestone and race happening on right
[00:08:07] now with China, but I think the moon could end up being kind of the next industrial frontier for humanity. And the reason is if you can get to the moon, the moon has an extraordinary abundance of material that we can mine, process, and manufacture into goods. And ultimately the cost to ship those goods back to the earth is zero. It will cost less to move goods, manufactured goods, processed ore, uh, precious metals from
[00:08:37] the moon to a specific point on Earth. It will cost less to do that than to ship it using any other terrestrial conventional method, whether that's a boat, an airplane, or a railroad. And the reason is that on the moon, you can take advantage of the low gravity. It's about 16 the gravity and the complete lack of an atmosphere, meaning that it's frictionless to move material off of the moon and very low energy to move it off
[00:09:02] of the moon. You do not need to use a rocket propellant with high energy like we have to do to move things off of the Earth. In fact, the design for moving material off of the moon is to use what's called a mass driver, which is like a a train track, like a rail, like an electric rail. You kind of see these in, you know, high-speed trains that work on kind of magnetic levitation. And you could put a package on that rail and
[00:09:26] use electricity to accelerate that package to 100 g force, shoot it back to the Earth, or theoretically shoot it to Mars, and it will go to the exact point on the Earth you want it to go to, re-enters the atmosphere, and lands with a a simple parachute where you want it to go. So we could run continuous mining, continuous manufacturing processes on the moon at a fraction of the cost of what it would take to do it
[00:09:48] here on Earth. The biggest limiting factor getting people to the moon. And that is largely solved or will be solved in the next few years by robotics. So I think that there's this pretty profound intersection with what's going on in robotics with this moment for space industrialization and moving to the moon. So, you know, Tesla, I think 20 years from now is actually a more interesting story, whether they're the
[00:10:10] same independent company or the same company. I think we're going to look back one day and have this kind of laughing observation that Tesla started out as an electric car company. >> 100% ended up becoming an autonomous car company. And the autonomous competency is what led to the robotics revolution. and the robotics revolution. Even if the socialists ban robotics on Earth and tell us no robots allowed, they're
[00:10:32] taking all the jobs, you could ship all those robots to the moon and they could get to work and create an entirely new manufacturing frontier for our civilization, for humanity. That frontier can manufacture precious metals and other goods and ship them back. You could manufacture semiconductors on the moon. All that's missing is the robots. So moving the robots to the moon or setting up the materials for robots to
[00:10:54] build themselves on the moon is kind of the first phase of this transition, you know, asking about 20 years from now. And then the next phase is building this all out. So look, I mean, I think that this may not be and it certainly won't be limited to just SpaceX. But SpaceX is demonstrating its capacity at being effectively the railroads. You know, what the railroads were to the west and to the frontier in the west, you know,
[00:11:13] in the last generation. SpaceX will be to the moon and ultimately to Mars. And there's going to be an extraordinary abundance of production that's going to come out of the moon. The moon has everything by the way and I'll say one more thing about SpaceX. SpaceX has also created and this is going to be a big part of the valuation analysis that many are doing. They've created a backup to the internet. You know the internet is
[00:11:33] fundamentally limited by all of the nodes on the network and the connectivity amongst all those nodes. And that connectivity is largely driven by copper and fiber optic cable. So in space with the number of satellites going up with Starlink and to actually deploy data centers that can output data on those nodes on that network, SpaceX has largely built a backup internet. And that backup internet can coincide with
[00:11:56] the Earth's internet, but it creates this extraterrestrial communication network that gives us theoretically the ability to think about, hey, if governments collapse, if there's civilizational upheaval, etc., etc., etc., this becomes, I think, a fundamentally kind of important technology infrastructure that's going to exist in parallel. So, I'm pretty excited about like these two separate paths for SpaceX and where they
[00:12:18] intersect with Tesla, I think, is pretty profound at the moment. >> Yeah. And it can't be understated what lowering the cost per kilogram to get to space has done to entrepreneurs around the company. There's multiple entrepreneurs who are now doing asteroid mining or VA doing experimentation in space and I have a I've been doing some latestage stuff with my syndicate and one of the interesting companies we syndicated
[00:12:45] we we did zipline which is a great company but we also did this company called VAS vast space uh Jed is the founder he he created uh Ripple and uh and and some other crypto projects and he put a lot of his money hundreds of millions of dollars into this company vast case and they're designing a space station. How did they do it? Well, they just bought carriage on SpaceX rockets and they paid in advance. They have
[00:13:09] their slot and now they're doing this massive innovation to make modular space station components. >> Here's what I'll >> And the thesis is, hey, what if Google or Amazon want to have a space station in space? You know, it's completely possible they may want that. >> Here's what I'll say. I think >> sometimes it's better to be lucky than good. There are all of these ways that so many people will end up with participation into SpaceX. I think we
[00:13:35] all owe Elon an enormous thanks. I think that this is going to unleash just an unbelievably large economy of things that we have no idea about. And when I see this thing, that video that you just showed, what it reminds me is that we have an very rudimentary capability in space. What does that mean? If you take, if you catch a ride on Falcon 9 or Falcon Heavy, basically it's dropping you off at 550 km. I think you have a
[00:14:08] different problem if you're trying to get to geo. But even if you get dropped off at 500 or 550, how do you get to your actual orbital plane? Right? So meaning if you think of Elon as like the big container ships that go from China to America once it gets to Long Beach, you need FedEx. There's an entire infrastructure there that's going to get all of this logistics built last mile. There's a huge garbage collection
[00:14:33] problem that's getting built up. We still haven't technically solved how to do garbage collection in space. There's nets, there's magnetic plates. All of that is getting fixed. Then there's going to be an explosion in actual power generation. The cell composition of solar cells up in space are materially different. It's a really incredible thing. You look at these thin sheets, they are like one millimeter thick. You
[00:14:56] if you carried it on your hand, the glass breaks, yet you can smash a meteor into it when it's laid and laminated and nothing happens. It's like the It's like So my point is in every single dimension of what the earthly economy looks like, it's now going to go and get rebuilt in space. There will be a FedEx of space. There'll be a MK of space. There'll be a I don't know what the garbage collection companies are. Allied Waste of Space.
[00:15:24] There's going to be everything of space that exists in the United States. Freeberg just talked about the Freeport Macaran of space. Like everything >> and that we owe to him. >> Yeah. And I hope he gets that credit because the amount of businesses I think that can get created and the amount of value that will be created on top of SpaceX's shoulders is vast. It's the beginning of the beginning of the beginning and it's going to create
[00:15:52] enormous opportunities for people who are smart and resourceful. >> And Freeberg, maybe you could comment on the PGMs, the palladium that's on asteroids and just how they're rare here on Earth. If we had an unlimited supply or a continuous supply of those minerals, you know, what what could the downstream effect of that be? And then what if we find things in space that we are unaware of? There are unknown unknowns. Correct, Freeberg, when you
[00:16:21] start to conceptualize this. I do think like the asteroid mining is an interesting concept but I do think it's going to be more likely that we'll have the need for infrastructure so we can produce ores and refine and so on versus you know bringing chunky rock back. I think that you could do this very effectively on the moon. The primary elements that are missing from the moon that we have on the earth are you know
[00:16:43] carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen. basically these things that make life on Earth. But that's because they primarily exist in a gaseous form and the Earth has enough gravity to retain those gases and have an atmosphere. The moon is too small to maintain an atmosphere. The gravity is too little. So those gases all kind of went away. They evaporated away in the early formation of the Earth and the Moon. But on the moon, there's
[00:17:09] everything else. There's aluminum, there's silicon, there's palladium, there's platinum, there's gold, there's everything you possibly need. So, I think as we do the calculus on all of this, we'll end up realizing that the moon is probably the best frontier. One of the biggest issues is dissipating heat because you don't have an atmosphere. But theoretically, you could recapture that heat and use like helium