[00:44:36] continues to spike up. It reached over $700 a ton in the last two days. And this is really really really impactful. It's not just like oh the price is double. Number one, there's a supply deficiency. So farmers in places like Africa and South Asia are not getting the ura that they need to farm. That is going to have a massive follow-on problem. And in markets where they have access because the price has spiked like
[00:45:01] in the United States, our biggest crop is corn. You need about 200 pounds of that ura per acre for corn. And that cost basically makes you unprofitable. There is no way you can make a profitable crop of corn. The other thing that China did at the same time is they stopped buying corn. So corn prices would normally spike up and corn prices have remained low while the input prices have spiked for American farmers. So
[00:45:24] American farmers are in a real pickle. Fortunately for this spring planting, which is happening right now, about twothirds of American farmers had already secured their fertilizer before the this began, but a third did not and they're switching crops typically to soybeans. But we have a fall planting coming up in a couple of months here and the choke points on production is going to keep prices very high. In the United
[00:45:48] States, we make a lot of our own ammonia at our natural gas facilities in places like Oklahoma and Texas and Wyoming and other places and then it ships directly to the farms. But the cost is so high because of the global market that it's going to become very hard for farmers to make a profit. And around the world there are many farmers, millions and millions of farmers that can't access this fertilizer now. So the choke point
[00:46:09] in the straight of Hormuz is turning out to be a real critical global food supply crisis yet again similar to Ukraine. And remember there was about 400 million people following the Ukraine war globally that we saw enter into a state of malnourishment. This means more than one year of,200 calories or less per day for a year. 400 million people after Ukraine. So coming out of this crisis it could be even more severe given the
[00:46:33] criticality of nitrogen based fertilizers and the shutdown of the straight. Let me make two more points on this. You would think, okay, we'll make more nitrogen fertilizer. The facilities take at least three to five years to fix when they break, which is what just happened in Qatar. That facility got damaged, the main facility that's being used to make fertilizer. So that is the largest producer of ura in the world.
[00:46:53] That's now going to be incapacitated for 3 to 5 years. And if you want to build a new facility, takes about 7 years. All the facilities around the world that make ura and ammonia these nitrogen fertilizers typically run 24/7 365 at full capacity. There is no downtime where you can just turn on excess production in the world. So you know the world is very delicate in its balance of inputs and food production outputs. The
[00:47:17] whole world has like less than 30 days of food of calories stored up. So as these kind of supply chain problems start to percolate there's shock waves that start to get felt around the world. So, it's a pretty serious crisis ahead and it'll take a few months before it'll be fully realized. In the meantime, US farmers are getting their asses handed to them. They can't make money and China is using this as a moment for
[00:47:38] extraordinary leverage over America and taking advantage of the situation by shutting down exports of their fertilizer and at the same time not buying American production of corn. We probably need Freedberg to have some sort of resiliency here and address this like we did with pharmaceuticals, PPE, all these other things. Yeah, we should have some sort of stockpile of fertilizer. >> Kimat's point is absolutely correct.
[00:48:01] Natural gas reservoirs exist around the world and we've been loathed to exploit them or develop them because of the climate change carbon risks and issues. But I think what we're realizing is that those are luxury beliefs to an extent. You can only say let's not exploit carbon resources until you hit a shock wave like this and then people are like wait a second we really do need to have these systems up and running and we need
[00:48:27] to have excess capacity and local capacity in the system because single points of failure for the whole world's food supply is not going to cut it anymore particularly as the world is becoming more fragmented and multipolar and there's less US policing of the world that's going to happen and so on. It's going to be very critical that everyone starts to think about doubling down not just on energy production but
[00:48:47] some of these other critical inputs like fertilizer and another output just as a quick side story on that gas production is when you pull that gas out of the ground that's the primary place we find helium and helium we're all waking up to the fact you know we never really think about helium we think about kids balloons at birthday parties >> but helium goes into MRI machines helium goes into semiconductor manufacturing
[00:49:08] helium goes into mass spec machines that are used in chemical analysis with a lot applications around the world. Helium is a critical input to medical equipment, to manufacturing equipment, and all of a sudden, a third of the world's helium coming out of Qatar is not making it out. And so, we're now going to have a helium supply shock that's going to affect the world. So, we're starting to wake up to the fact that perhaps these
[00:49:30] nat gas fields that we've allowed to kind of turn a blind eye and say, &quot;Let one country exploit them and let them make all the nat gas.&quot; The US is actively developing. You know, I went down and visited that Chenny air facility in Louisiana with Doug Bergam a couple months ago, which was an amazing site to see where we do all the LG exporting, but the US has extraordinary nat gas reserves. So do many other
[00:49:52] places in the world that have failed to take advantage of developing them. And I think we're realizing the criticality of doing so at this moment. >> Looking at this, I think we'll have Trump pivot extremely soon. I've brought this chart up now. This will be the fourth time. >> Is that your prediction, Jal? think he's going to wrap this up? I mean, >> he's 100% going to wrap this up and I and and I can show why. I mean, this
[00:50:13] just basically look at the history of this. You guys remember I brought up this chart with Trump's net approval rating and you you look at how this has changed over the three times I brought it up. First time in June last year, then October. Uh, and again, I'm going to bring it up here. the stuff with ICE and, you know, the Epstein files and just going right down the line of unpopular decisions. Trump's net approval rating now has just
[00:50:45] plummeted to -17. This is the least popular he's ever been. And he's had to pivot here. Pam Bondi at the time we are uh recording this as I predicted on a previous episode that Christine Gnome and Pam Bondi would be fired uh or in I guess Trump's terms he likes to uh get them a new job and give them a window seat. This is absolutely going to result in a quick pivot. Who knows what the downstream effects are but the inflation three handle is coming
[00:51:18] back. According to Poly Market, gas is over $4 a gallon. And then, you know, it's easy to mock like we did earlier these like no kings protests, but 8 million people came out for that. That's a large number. And if you look at the poly market for what's going to happen in the midterms, 51% chance now that the Dems take the Senate, 86% that they take the House. And you know what you're going to take from that is
[00:51:41] >> wait, sorry, Poly Market is now showing the Democrats winning both houses. >> Yeah, pull it up, Nick. significant chance of that. And you know when this happens, how much money is being bet on that? Let's just see. >> 51% they take the Senate, 86% they take the House, and four and a half million $4.5 million on this. >> Oh gosh. >> Yeah. >> I tend to I tend to filter how seriously I take Poly Market just based on the
[00:52:06] total quantum, but this is a big number. >> Yeah. And and I you know, listen, I this is not me trying to dunk on Trump and my personal beliefs. I think when you lose Tucker, when you lose Megan Kelly, when you lose Joe Rogan, you know, and people are looking at who Trump surrounded him with, there's really just two groups. You have these super highly qualified people, Bessant, Lutnik, obviously, David Saxs. You got you got really
[00:52:31] highly qualified people, JD, you know, who who I think the world of. I think these people are great. But then he put some people in positions that I think weren't up to the task. Pam Bondi, Christie, I'll put Steven Miller and Cash in that as well. It's my personal belief in that case. And those people have not served him well. And they need to get this presidency back on track because what's going to happen is we're
[00:52:54] going to have two more years of impeachments and investigations and the whole thing's going to be derided. And and we really need to start thinking about what who's making these decisions. Who who made this decision to go into Iran and why? who made these decisions to have ICE go into Minnesota and why? And I think a lot of it goes back to Steven Miller. I got mocked a bit here on the pod for like blaming him, but you
[00:53:18] can correlate Steven Miller, Christy Gnome, Cash Patel, and Pam Bondi with all of the downside of this presidency and the plummeting ratings. Trump's going to need to clear house. He's cleared out two or four. I predict he'll clear out the other two and get great leadership in there and turn this presidency around because listen, this is going to be socialism now and AOC is going to win. This is going to cause
[00:53:41] massive chaos if he doesn't get out of Iran and do it soon. Just my handicapping of the situation. Uh Hegath, I'm not so sure. I'm not sure if I uh you know what I think of him yet, but you know, we don't have information on why Trump did this. That's going to be the next shoe to drop >> on why why he did it. Freeberg, I think, you know, this is the point I made the second this war happened or military operation. I mean, let's let's call it
[00:54:07] what it is. This is a war. When you kill the top hundred people, it's a war. I said, I don't have the information of why he did this. Like, he might have information, Freeberg, that we don't have that made this an absolute must for us to do, >> but we haven't revealed that information. He hasn't explained it well to the American people. I think that's why the ratings are, >> you know, and I don't want to make the
[00:54:26] ratings like a TV ratings. his popularity is getting crushed here. The way this was explained to Americans, and again, I'm not inserting my position here. I'm just talking about the disconnect right now, is that Operation Midnight Hammer was supposed to uh have just decimated this. So, why did we do this again? And we don't have the information. This is why I try to stay humble in this and say like, what information does Trump have of that we
[00:54:53] don't have? Some people seem to think Chamath this was overconfidence. There's obviously this debate. Did we get baited into this by Israel and get pushed into it and is he a Manurion candidate etc. I that's above my pay grade too. I I don't have any information on that. I'm not in the CIA. It's hard to be a an armchair critic on this stuff in both senses. Like I think it's hard to say, hey, this guy got talked into doing this. Israel
[00:55:19] manipulated him into it. You know, sorry. It's easy to say that. It's also easy to say, &quot;Hey, we should go get rid of the country that's made all the nuclear weapons.&quot; Both of those are easy to say without all of the texture of the relationships and the details and what really went on. None of us know is the truth. >> That's literally the point, you know, I've been trying to make how do the same thing with Venezuela. Like, how do we
[00:55:40] know? We don't have any intelligence to we're not in the CIA. We don't have any of these insights that MSAD or the Israeli intelligence services have. How do we know how this was going to go down? And you know, that's all going to come out, I think, when this all gets investigated. Yeah. >> I think Trump is and has been the most consistent anti-war president of modern history. >> Yes. >> And I think that it's fair to say that
[00:56:07] he has and has had and has demonstrated enormous restraint and has the highest bar thus far of folks for actually getting into conflict. So I do think that what Freeberg says is very important. There's just so much we don't know and I think that he doesn't want to stain his legacy with a typical American, you know, war. >> Yeah. >> He doesn't want that. I don't think he doesn't need to be anywhere near that. So there is obviously stuff that we
[00:56:39] don't know. I still think that there's a short-term problem which is not just the threat that Iran poses to Israel, but there's a threat that Iran poses to the rest of the Middle Eastern community. >> That neighborhood is a complicated place. There was an interview that NBS did on Saudi television. Nick, maybe maybe you can find it. It's in Arabic, but there's a good version of it that I saw with subtitles. And if you hear the MBS's telling of
[00:57:12] what the Iranian threat is, it's not dissimilar to how the Israelis would characterize the threat. And so I think it's important to understand that unpredictable actors should not be given an opportunity to have a cataclysmic weapon that can just completely destroy the earth as we know it. That just doesn't make sense. And I think if you can intervene to prevent that, we're now aware of the damages of what this can do to enough of a degree
[00:57:43] where there should be enough of nuclear disarmament from here on out. >> The six, seven, eight, nine countries that have it. Okay, there's all kinds of reasons why maybe we could have remade those decisions over the intervening 70 years. >> Maybe there's some that we never should have let have it. The Pakistan India thing is a good example of one. But we are where we are and I think we can all agree no more country should
[00:58:07] incrementally get access to this thing. >> Absolutely not. And this regime specifically believes that anybody who is not part of this specific religion needs to die and the whole >> Islam needs to be reunited in order to take on anybody who's not part of a version of radical Islam. like it's a it's a if this is a religious lunacy in that country. I think everybody else should be murdered if they don't convert.
[00:58:34] >> I think it's important to say that the overwhelming majority of Sunnis and the overwhelming majority of Shia are peaceful observant people. There are fringes in every religion and in specifically this I think the most important thing is to not take your word or anybody else's word. I do think it's important to listen to somebody like NBS because I think it's the lived experience of you know having to run a
[00:58:56] country in that neighborhood and what it means and I think what you see is as you as you're articulating many layers of complexity that again I think that most of us in the west have zero appreciation for all of this goes to in the short term I think that they forced themselves into a corner I think we can go back and relitigate Why did Obama let him out? That was a really, really stupid idea. We probably should have kept our thumb
[00:59:25] on the scale and had them close to teetering on economic insolveny. That's the only thing that has kept them in check. They veered wildly away the minute we let them out of the disarmament agreements that we had. But we are where we are. We got to put the genie back in the bottle. And we cannot look to other countries and tolerate this idea that they also want to build the kinds of weapons that can literally destroy the face of the planet
[00:59:54] as we know it. It's a non-starter. And then the second order effect is how do we make sure that folks that are participating in all of this broader seeds of sewing chaos, how do we hem them in and how do we create a more reasonable world order? And I think that the second order effects, and I've said this before, kind of bring this back to China. And I think a world where it's bipolar, where it's the United States
[01:00:21] and China roughly as the two leading statesmen of the world, is probably the Nash equilibrium here. >> And so I think getting China in a position where they need to do a deal. And remember I said this, the worst thing that could happen for China was the president delaying the summit. And here we are. We're now it's delayed for six weeks. It's going to go into midbay. If you think the straight of hormuse numbers as it relates to energy prices
[01:00:51] in Europe or anywhere else are crazy, look at what's happening inside of China right now. It is a no bueno situation. And so in May, if we can reestablish a set of operating criteria that keeps normaly in check, no more of this rapid random expansion everywhere where the Chinese are trying to build bases in near us and you know now we have to have a point of view near them. We don't need any of that. So I think if we can use this as an