[00:00:00] Ignition [music] sequence start all engines up. >> It's good to have an aviator and astronaut in charge. Jared Eisen, >> the new NASA administrator. >> NASA's still hot. Humankind [music] will not be contained to planet Earth indefinitely. In the next giant leap capabilities, that's nuclear power and propulsion. That's what extends America's reach farther into the solar system. That's what guarantees the third
[00:00:25] race will never be in question. Please welcome Jared Isaacman. [music]
[00:00:42] Good morning everyone. It is an absolute honor to be here at Allin. We are living through an extraordinary moment in history, aren't we? It took just 65 years from Orville and Wilbur's first flight to Neil and Buzz walking on the surface of the moon. Now, it's been 57 years since Apollo 11. And for a while there, pace of progress hasn't been all that inspiring, but look at what is on the horizon right now. We got
[00:01:13] artificial intelligence, quantum technologies, robotics, additive manufacturing, the promise of fusion energy, biotech to heal the disabled, autonomous transportation, this whole abundance thing everyone's talking about, all converging in the years ahead is beyond what most people can comprehend. Our world will fundamentally change. how we live, how we work, how we fight wars, how we reach out and touch the stars.
[00:01:43] But we are not alone on this journey. We are living through a great power competition. Other nations understand the opportunities that can elevate nations and change civilizations. And perhaps nowhere are the possibilities, the competition, and the consequences of getting it wrong more apparent than in the ultimate high ground above us. Now at NASA, we are doing things differently and we are regaining our swagger and
[00:02:09] putting wins on the board. But absent this president, absent this geopolitical competition and the very real possibility of losing the second space race, I suspect very little would have changed. For too long, resources at the world's most accomplished space agency were spread everywhere, trying to make everyone happy. Much of it was through external imposition, but plenty of it was self-inflicted. We partnered for the
[00:02:36] sake of partnerships, oftent times becoming a drag on the mission instead of accelerating it. As a result, we have the Orion spacecraft that we can't inject into low lunar orbit like we did during Apollo. And the prior administration cancelled the Mars sample return mission that was on track to cost more than an aircraft carrier. We created programs that were too big to fail fail, too costly to truly succeed
[00:03:02] in the hope that they would survive administrations. The results being a rocket that was designed when China was predominantly operating coal fired locomotives and now becoming operational as China operates 25,000 mi of highspeed rail and is just a few years away from their own Apollo 11 like moment. core competencies and tens of thousands of the NASA workforce were rented, outsourced, or lost, which turned what
[00:03:30] should have been months worth of progress into years at tremendously greater cost. Eventually, too little was left to do things the right way. The way NASA showed the world how to do it in decades past. So, we invented this whole dream state as a service thing, forgoing the playbook of success and shifting the impossible burden onto others. The result is that our moon rocket is in fact less efficient than Saturn 5 at
[00:03:56] converting launch mass into payload head payload headed for the moon with more time between the Aremis 1 and Artemis 2 mission than all 12 of the Geminy missions that were flown 60 years before. A lunar space station that whenever it may have been delivered put our astronauts in a position to look down on the most desirable lunar real estate instead of operating on the surface and occupying it. one XPlane that wasn't flying very much and
[00:04:23] billions spent on failed nuclear programs that had not left the laboratory since 1965. Now, during the first space race, we were slow out of the gate, but NASA ultimately ran up the score. The second will be much closer than it ever needed to be. Since becoming the administrator of LA NASA last year, we have made a different choice. We are not going to try and make everyone happy. we are not going to spread every penny across every
[00:04:51] district or partner with every nation just to try and make everyone happy or because that's how people incorrectly believed it always was. I am certainly not here for the money to favor companies for the title, the notoriety, the politics. I'm not here to be your VC to entertain your dream or invent new markets if it detracts in the slightest way from the missions that we have been entrusted to achieve on behalf of the
[00:05:16] American people. You can take those conversations up with the Department of Commerce if you like. I'm here to execute on President Trump's national space policy to align and focus resources to work alongside and unleash this best the best this nation has to offer. From the NASA workforce to our industry to our partners and deliver the world changing outcomes. The kind of outcomes that put Neil and Buzz on the
[00:05:39] moon. The kind of outcomes that inspired many of you to be in this room in the first place. This is a very reinvigorated and energized NASA and America is back in the business of sending our astronauts to the moon. [applause] Now, Artemis 2 was just the beginning. Those four heroic astronauts, recent recipients of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor, rode 8.8 8 million pounds of thrust to near Earth escape
[00:06:10] velocities, traveled farther into space than any humans in history around the moon and back home safely. And that was just the opening act. We are not waiting 3 years to fly again. We are not turning every rocket into a work of art. Artemis 3 is already being assembled right now at a pace many doubted was possible just months ago. Before year end, we intend to roll out to launch complex 39B for a tanking test and send a message to our
[00:06:36] workforce, our industry, and our rivals overseas. NASA is back and we are not going to sit idly by. We are not just a procurement organization. We are going to do the extremely demanding work and achieve our objectives safely, responsibly, and urgently because that is what meeting the moment requires. Now, in the summer of 2027, Artemis 3 will launch on SLS into low Earth orbit and rendevous with lander test vehicles
[00:07:03] from Blue Origin and SpaceX in what will be a remarkable display of the three most powerful rockets and spacecraft in the world. We will test interoperability and show what a future multilaunch campaign can actually look like. What we learn will inform the uncrrewed test landings that follow. and then Artemis 4 in 2028 when American astronauts return to the lunar surface and this time to stay. In parallel [applause]
[00:07:35] in parallel we are establishing humanity's first outpost on another world, a moon base. And this time we are leveraging the NASA playbook of decades past. We are not jumping directly to the dream state. We will launch missions on a near monthly cadence and undertake the science of survival. That means autonomous and crude mobility, surface improvement, [snorts] institute resource util utilization and manufacturing,
[00:07:58] logistics, habitability, power, communications, and all the science instruments the mass budget affords. We will bring it to you live and HD on the moonbased website. And we will leave no doubters this time. We go for the scientific and the economic potential. we go to learn about the formation of our solar system, but primarily because the lunar south pole, where the water ice is, is going to be the technological
[00:08:23] proving ground for where we inevitably go next, which is Mars. In 2028, [applause] in 2028, NASA will leave decades and billions of dollars of failed nuclear programs behind and launch SR1 Freedom, a 100 kilowatt fision reactor that will finally get America underway on nuclear power. The mission will transit Mars and release Skyfall, which carries three Ingenuity class helicopters and using ground penetrating radar to scout
[00:08:53] subsurface ice and future landing sites. This will mark the beginning of the nuclear NASA, pivoting our workforce and facilities back to doing the near impossible. Missions with no obvious business case, what no company, no agency or nation is presently capable of accomplishing, but but that extend humanity's reach farther into the outer solar system. And just during like just like during the Apollo era, the
[00:09:18] technology that we pioneer to get there will surely benefit life back here at home. There will be lots of nuclear missions. SR2, SR3, SR4. Alongside our industry partners, we will push the boundaries of high temperature materials, more efficient power conversion, more reduced radiator mass, and higher performance electric propulsion as we visit some of the most interesting moons like Enceladus, Europa, and Titan. These are worlds with
[00:09:45] oceans, with complex chemistry, and perhaps the ingredients for life. a reminder that some of the greatest discoveries in human history, they may be waiting for us in our own backyard. We could answer the question, are we alone? And are we alone even in our own solar system, let alone the galaxy and universe around us? Someday, a chemically augmented nuclearpowered transfer vehicle, part of an American starfleet, supported by a armada of
[00:10:12] starships and other spacecraft, will carry humans to the surface of Mars and bring them home safely to tell us about it. And not just once. We are on this great destiny of human exploration, and we are not turning back. Along the way, we are going to do the other things. Commercial satellites are being printed off at a rate that will help us affordably understand the only planet that we presently inhabit, our home star
[00:10:36] and space weather, and better predict weather and perhaps respond to to wildfires and natural disasters better, freeing up more resources to build the exquisite flagship science missions that only NASA can undertake. Like, for example, the nuclearpowered Dragonfly Octter. It's powered by a 2 kilowatt MMRTG, converting to just 100 watts of electricity, barely better than an old light bulb, but it will journey to
[00:11:00] Saturn's moon of Titan in 2028. Europa Clipper will arrive at Jupiter's icy moon in 2030. And our great space telescopes like James Webb and Hubble will soon be joined by Roman. And with her nearly 300 megapixel widefield instrument and JPL built coronagraph, in the moments ahead, Roman will open her eyes. And in that instance, she will see more of the universe than any scientific instrument we've ever put in space before. Her
[00:11:29] surveys will seek to it is a cool telescope. [applause] Her surveys will seek to understand the mysteries of dark energy and dark matter and reveal tens of thousands of worlds that are hidden behind in distant stars. Roman will return images so large and in such detail there is no screen on Earth large enough to display them. Now other missions like Neo Surveyor will find asteroids and comets that can threaten
[00:11:59] Earth. While next generation telescopes in development will seek out habitable planets orbiting other stars. The last few decades have shown us that the future in space that we all imagined as children will never be realized if they're perpetually funded by taxpayers. NASA will do everything within reason to support an orbital and perhaps even lunar economy someday, building on the proven markets of launch, observation,
[00:12:21] and communication. Whether the next frontier is in orbital data centers or commercial space stations or on orbit manufacturing, regulith resource extraction, asteroid mining, or industries that none of us have even imagined yet. Now, it's not NASA's job to force an economy, but we will do all we can to ignite one as we pursue our missions. And in the service of the first A and NASA, we are rebuilding our XPlane fleet. The X59 is researching
[00:12:49] quiet supersonic flight. But it's just the beginning as NASA recommmits to flight test and works alongside industry to push the boundaries of airframe and propulsion design. It will not be long before NASA is flying once again as high and as fast as we have from decades past. and then even more. But if this frontier is going to expand as rapidly as we believe it will be, we will have to cultivate the talent to
[00:13:12] lead it, the space domain deserves an institution focused on that future and call it what many already have and should, a Starfleet Academy. That is why the president established the commission for the United States Space Academy, a NASA federal academy to prepare the next generation of astronauts, scientists, engineers, technicians, operators, pilots, and leaders. And just as the need for space force became clear as the
[00:13:36] domain evolved, we should be equally forward-looking and preparing those who will build the moon base, operate nuclearpowered spacecraft, command missions to Mars, ensure our national security, and create industries in orbit we can barely imagine today. And there is no time to waste. I want you all to think about where you were when Artemis 2 astronauts sent back those images from the moon. Who did it touch? your parents, your friends, your
[00:14:03] colleagues, your children. Now, I want you to imagine astronauts climbing down the ladder. Only this time, it is not grainy black and white footage from July 20th, 1969. It's highdefinition color streaming live to billions of people all around the world. The astronaut steps foot on the lunar surface. The camera pans up and the flag on the spacuit is not American. There will be no footnote explaining that we spent more. No
[00:14:31] disclaimer that our architecture was complicated. No one will care how many studies we completed, how many meetings we held, what congressional districts benefited, who all the all-star lobbyists were for their hardware, who served on the committee, or how many times we slipped the schedule for what someone thought was a perfectly reasonable reason. The world will just see who got there. China intends to put
[00:14:55] their astronauts on the moon by 2030. Its robotic missions are targeting the Shackleton crater of the lunar south pole next year and there are only so many good parking spots in that neighborhood and they intend to occupy them. They are working with Russia on their own nuclearpowered moon base. And to be clear, China will accomplish what the Soviets never could during the first space race. They have a very achievable
[00:15:18] two launch architecture, the national will and capabilities to put their astronauts on the surface of the moon. And if America has not returned despite the decades of promises and the more than 100 billion invested, the shock wave will be felt around the world. Our allies will notice. Our adversaries will notice. Every nation deciding whose technology to buy, whose standards to adopt, whose security guarantees to
[00:15:40] trust, and whose vision of the future will to follow will take notice. And perhaps most importantly, our children will notice. That is why we must remain focused on the objectives that matter. Why NASA was established in the first place. There is no time anymore for lobbying against America's interests or further tolerating the status quo. Only extreme ownership, competence, and action. Those of us inspired by the
[00:16:07] pioneers and heroes of decades past know they set the bar high. But we do not honor them by living forever on what they accomplished. This is our time to pick up where they left off, return, and never give up the moon again, and then set our sights on Mars and beyond. And none of this will be accomplished by NASA alone. We have the support of President Trump. We have Congress. We have a clear mandate in the national
[00:16:31] space policy. But it will take brilliant entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers, our allies, and Americans across the country who still believe that great nations can do great things. because our children will either inherit the confidence of a nation still capable of the extraordinary or the memory of one that used to be. That responsibility, that choice belongs to all of us. And I believe when history looks back on this
[00:16:56] moment, let it record that America did not hesitate any longer. We did not allow the bureaucracy, the complacency, the waste, inaction, or fear of failure to constrain what we could accomplish. We chose to go and we went. Thank you. [applause] All right, let's go. [music] Let's go. All right, everybody. >> America. Good job. Good job. [music]
[00:17:30] [music] >> Where do you want me? Oh, right on the I was commenting backstage on how uh easy it is for NASA to come and do speeches given the content the the capacity to show visuals like this. Can you imagine like housing and urban development trying to do a presentation? >> No, we have we have unbelievable material to work with. I'm thankful every day that I I don't lead uh the IRS or social >> Yeah. Right. Can we can we talk about um
[00:17:59] we don't have a lot of time so I I I know I want to move our way through the universe but can we start with the moon um what is is there a you know there's kind of this case that NASA makes about the new the moon being the starting point for getting to Mars but is the moon a potentially viable economy on its own? Is there an industry to be built on the moon? Is there an ongoing set of operations uh that could be established on the moon