[00:15:40] trust, and whose vision of the future will to follow will take notice. And perhaps most importantly, our children will notice. That is why we must remain focused on the objectives that matter. Why NASA was established in the first place. There is no time anymore for lobbying against America's interests or further tolerating the status quo. Only extreme ownership, competence, and action. Those of us inspired by the
[00:16:07] pioneers and heroes of decades past know they set the bar high. But we do not honor them by living forever on what they accomplished. This is our time to pick up where they left off, return, and never give up the moon again, and then set our sights on Mars and beyond. And none of this will be accomplished by NASA alone. We have the support of President Trump. We have Congress. We have a clear mandate in the national
[00:16:31] space policy. But it will take brilliant entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers, our allies, and Americans across the country who still believe that great nations can do great things. because our children will either inherit the confidence of a nation still capable of the extraordinary or the memory of one that used to be. That responsibility, that choice belongs to all of us. And I believe when history looks back on this
[00:16:56] moment, let it record that America did not hesitate any longer. We did not allow the bureaucracy, the complacency, the waste, inaction, or fear of failure to constrain what we could accomplish. We chose to go and we went. Thank you. [applause] All right, let's go. [music] Let's go. All right, everybody. >> America. Good job. Good job. [music]
[00:17:30] [music] >> Where do you want me? Oh, right on the I was commenting backstage on how uh easy it is for NASA to come and do speeches given the content the the capacity to show visuals like this. Can you imagine like housing and urban development trying to do a presentation? >> No, we have we have unbelievable material to work with. I'm thankful every day that I I don't lead uh the IRS or social >> Yeah. Right. Can we can we talk about um
[00:17:59] we don't have a lot of time so I I I know I want to move our way through the universe but can we start with the moon um what is is there a you know there's kind of this case that NASA makes about the new the moon being the starting point for getting to Mars but is the moon a potentially viable economy on its own? Is there an industry to be built on the moon? Is there an ongoing set of operations uh that could be established on the moon
[00:18:27] that make sense beyond just kind of testing equipment before we go to Mars? >> Yeah, maybe. Right. So, I think we are extremely fortunate. We've been gifted a moon 3 days away to test out everything we need on this great adventure of discovery, right? I mean, this is where you want to go to really dial in power. Your spac suits. It's taken us decades to build replacement spac suits from the Apollo era. Let's test that out on the
[00:18:48] moon. habitation modules certainly insitue resource manufacturing robotics right I mean you know look EVAs are fantastic astronauts bouncing around on the moon is going to be highly inspirational that's like one of the last things you should do when you have a moon base is send somebody outside in that extremely dangerous environment let robotics do it and in order to accomplish all of this you have to send an extraordinary demand signal to
[00:19:11] industry I mean over the next four years we're talking dozens of landers dozens of rovers lots of insitue resource manufacturing experimentation you're giving industry all the opportunity in the world to figure out how to unlock value from the lunar regalith, right? But I can't guarantee it, right? And that's my point on the Department of Commerce. They have a, you know, a whole space commerce office that can can work through that.
[00:19:30] I'm I am going to make sure that NASA, you know, can master the skills necessary to go to Mars for its scientific potential. We'll put radio telescopes on the far side to inspire the next generation. And if along the way it ignites a lunar economy, that's fantastic. But it costs an awful lot to get there. An awful lot to extract resources. >> Sorry, one sec. But and then we have to map the South Pole to figure out where
[00:19:51] we're going. Is that right? And that's part of this promise mission. That's kind of the next big mission for the moon. >> So uh I'm glad you brought up promise. Uh so we uh we have mapped the lunar south pole. There are only so many good landing spots. And what do I mean by that? I mean surface area of the moon is like the size of Africa. The south pole of the moon is like Washington DC. And there's only so many good craters that
[00:20:10] have these permanently shaded regions, which by the way, I mean, that is a harsher environment than Mars itself. That's where the water ice is. But the crater cliffs can also give you near eternal access to light for solar power. So there's only so many good landing spots. And you think about when like a vehicle the size of Starship comes down lunar surface. Believe me, that's going to blast out a little bit of craters,
[00:20:28] send debris. So really limited uh uh parking spots on that. Promise is very awesome because Promise is a radioisotope powered rover that we built as a spare essentially for the two rovers uh Perseverance and Curiosity are on on on on the on Mars right now. And just to give you a sense, this thing is the size of like a jeep. Okay, so we have some uh PU238 that's decaying right now. You only get so much life out of
[00:20:54] it. We want to take that, put it on promise, and send it to the moon. and it can go in and start prospecting in those permanently shaded regions that I mean almost any other hardware would die in. It's a very good way to make use of taxpayer dollars that have largely already been spent. >> And Jared, you were informing me last night, informing me last night and educating me on this specific southern region of the of the moon being
[00:21:17] absolutely critical for us to get to first versus China. Why is it so critical that we get there before China? and what's it going to take to do that? And just as a followup to that, what was the state of NASA when you got there? Because it did feel like they since the space shuttle program haven't been super focused or effective, but correct me if I'm wrong. >> Yeah. I mean, just to be clear, you're you're talking about some of the best
[00:21:44] best talent in this nation shows up to work at NASA every day, and they want to change the world in air and space. And for a very long time, everybody was trying to run NASA other than the people themselves that show up to work there. I mean, like I you heard from my remarks, you know, let's make everyone happy. Let's spread our resources to every congressional district. Let's collect 25 different flags to partner on the next
[00:22:04] mission that takes something that should cost a couple billion, which is very cool. Like going and getting samples back from Mars that could lead to the most consequential discovery in human history, and layer a bunch of other people on and make it cost more than a carrier, and then it then it gets canceled, right? So NASA's back in charge now, right? We are in a space race. People are giving us the latitude
[00:22:23] to to do what we need to do. And as a result, we are extremely focused on the president's national space policy. Return to the moon, build a base, get underway in nuclear power and the other things. And the workforce is responding well. And I'm I'm grateful alongside them. So we are in a different state today. Unfortunately, we don't have the time necessarily we'd like because years were lost uh in this now uh new space
[00:22:42] race. Now, the south pole of the moon, again, we've been gifted a moon 3 days away to again master those skills to go to Mars. There's only so many good sparking spots. The Chinese and the Russians know that, right? They they were going to launch a mission a couple weeks ago right to the Shackleton Ridge. Uh which, you know, maybe it was mechanical, maybe it was weather related, or maybe they were smart enough
[00:23:01] to know that if they actually did do it, it probably would ignite one hell of a a fire and urgency in us. Uh but that would have taken up one of like a couple critical parking spots. They're going to build a base there. They've partnered with Russia. They're going to have a fision power fision reactor there. And they're going to do the exact same things we are, which is interact with the water ice and get very good. And
[00:23:20] then where are they going next? The third space race. They're going to go to Mars. And then they'll have that massive Neil Armstrong like moment that will send a message around the world. And we are very committed to not letting that happen. >> What is the big technological leap that you have to make from the current course in speed to actually make Mars more realistic? Is it is it propulsion and thrust is the main vector?
[00:23:44] >> So I I think there's a I think there's a a couple things there. Look, robotics are going to be critical in all of this. So uh if you if you chose a path that was purely like chemical propulsion of which you know vehicles like uh Starship are going to be incredible at that. Well, you will no doubt have the means to send astronauts to Mars. uh they they've already figured out habitability a long time ago and you're talking very
[00:24:07] comparable velocities whether you're going to the to the moon or Mars in that regard. The hard part is how do you come back right? You're going to need to make propellant on Mars to do so and you know one solution to that to say is well I'll have an army of robots that'll do it and uh I'll have football field size you know solar panels and then the robots can dust them off from all the uh the dust storms that'll happen and then
[00:24:29] you'll make your own propellant you'll come home. The hard part is it's really it's really challenging to do that under one atmosphere and 1G here on Earth. I mean you can see how many people show up at like stage zero at you know at Starbase to launch a mission or and by the way that is the right right way to kind of win the war to put lots of mass on the surface. Um NASA can help that by kind of pivoting by stop doing what uh
[00:24:51] what industry is already doing really well and invest in that next giant leap capabilities that have no obvious you know business use case today which is fision power [snorts] and then you can have chemically augmented NEP spaceships uh transfer vehicles and go to and from Mars and you don't need to refuel them until they come back and what you're refilling is krypton or xenon. You're not having to make propellant on the
[00:25:11] surface of of uh of Mars. That to me is how NASA works alongside industry to invest in the capabilities that are necessary for American leadership in space. And by the way, those are the capabilities you want to go to like Saturn's moon of Enceladus, to go to Titan, to go to Europa where you have you have oceans on two of those moons that that could have still life in them. We don't know. How do you convince these
[00:25:33] incredible learned people to work for NASA versus SpaceX or other private space companies now in a world where there's so many ways in which you can contribute? >> So, so, so great. I'm I'm glad you asked that because it's a double down on nuclear, but it's right now we don't have a a recruiting problem initially. I mean, we take 1% uh of the intern applications that go into our pathway program which guarantee him a job at
[00:25:58] NASA. Then the question is, can you retain them? And if you're doing exactly what SpaceX, Blue, Rocket Lab, Stoke, ULA, and others are doing in industry, except you're doing it off, you know, you know, 50-y old shuttle hardware that again is not as efficient from for missions like going to the moon as Saturn 5 was, you're going to lose that workforce. So, what do you need to do? You know when we have those near
[00:26:18] impossible breakthroughs and there is a business case like there certainly is for launch where you can be one customer many you hand it off to industry and you pivot and that's how you retain talent that can only do these type of missions at NASA which is the nuclear NASA SR1 is just the beginning that is our Nautilus there will be a grand fleet of nuclearpowered uh on the frontier essentially you need to constantly keep
[00:26:39] pivoting to the next new thing in the >> can you explain just just really briefly a primer on how nuclear works for generating thrust >> yeah sure so actually you And just think of a lot of the uh like say Starlink satellites that you'd have up right now that use uh you hauler ion thrusters right now. They're generating electricity through solar power uh and then they're using through uh electromagnetic forces. They're they're
[00:27:00] they're ionizing either krypton or xenon and uh and then just basically accelerating it out uh of the thruster which gives you very very high uh you know exhaust velocity. So it's extremely efficient, very low thrust uh and you can use that propellant for a very long time. And and in space, the faster the molecule shoots out the back, the more thrust it generates for the for the craft to move forward. >> Yeah. I mean, it's just very low mass
[00:27:23] that you're actually it's very low mass flow, but highly efficient, right? So very very efficient, high uh you know, exhaust velocities. The idea though is where that breaks down is the farther you get away from the sun. So once you get out towards Jupiter, I mean, solar effectiveness is is negligible, right? So what you're using is like a a a uh the thermal energy from a a nuclear reactor. So 100 kows will scale it up to
[00:27:45] 250 who knows maybe megawatt class, right? You're going to want to run that reactor as hot as you possibly can. So that's your high temperature materials and then you're going to convert it through like a a closed braen cycle power conversion unit into electricity and that electricity is then going to power those same thrusters that you would see on Starlinks. It's just they're scaled up, right? They're like
[00:28:04] 12 kow, then 14 kilow, 25 kow thrusters. >> What is NASA's budget and if you could have your brothers, what would it be? Uh I'm uh incredibly supportive of look I've said it I've said it many times right now like NASA does not have a topline problem like we are bad capital allocators and have been for a long time and a lot of that is based on NASA choices it's based on what other people forced us to do and that's changed we
[00:28:26] have $25 billion I mean there's got how many how many entrepreneurs are in this room starv 25 billion is a lot of money [laughter] you can build some pretty incredible hardware you're one of the few entrepreneurs that actually has built a profitable company and taken it You showed a picture of the uh blackbird up there. And uh >> you sure that's a blackbird? >> Well, okay. Uh what was that picture that you showed up there?
[00:28:49] >> Like I said, NASA's getting back in the business flying high and fast again. >> I mean, that doesn't seem like a space vehicle. It seems like a earth air vehicle. >> Yeah. So, uh the first A in NASA is our is our aeronautics portfolio. And what we've contributed to over the decades, you may not realize this. Look, when you go see an F-22 fly at an air show and wow you, the flybywire technology was us. The the, you know, thrust vectoring
[00:29:14] technology was us. Uh NASA's been contributing to breakthroughs in aeronautics, both civil, commercial, and national security applications for a long time. And again, kind of similar to the same theme, over the years, we've been forced to spend our aeronautics budget on like subsidizing high TRL uh efforts from big prime contractors. An engine that's 40 years old, they want to squeak 3% more uh fuel efficiency out of
[00:29:38] it. Get NASA to pay for it. I'm like, are you kidding? There is no way we are doing that. You can underwrite that investment yourself for competitive reasons. You know what I want to do? I want to get back to the radical airframe and engine designs like we were always supposed to do. And you're getting a little bit of a taste for that on the on the >> Tell us about the importance of having a human on these ships when we go to the
[00:29:59] moon, when we go to Mars versus if Optimus figure these humanoid robotics are ready. Why would we risk a human life in these incredibly um dangerous environments? Is it ego? Is it we're trying to prove a point to have humans in the loop on these is or should we just be sending robots >> or it's our it's our destiny, right? I mean the same reason why we we cross the oceans and seas and climb the mountains. This is who we are. Would have many
[00:30:31] people stopped uh pause from the the discourse of our our daily lives uh to look at those astronauts go around the moon on Artemis 2 if they weren't humans. I I don't think so. Now don't get me wrong, we are going to need robotics and there are some environments that just whether it's the radiation that we can only do uncrrewed um you know robotic missions but we can we can go to the moon as we've done before with
[00:30:55] our astronauts, we can go to Mars and we can continue on outward and robotics will absolutely play a critical role in that journey. >> What about um then just like the autonomous navigation systems you talked about fly by wire? I mean, we still see even just like last week the the incident with Amazon Air. Now, this is civil aviation, but the overrun is ridiculous. That that that error mode was pretty shocking to to people, I