[00:14:16] >> Yeah. I mean, it's I I just gave a talk at a um a university and uh was was talking to some potential folks to to join us and I said, &quot;Look, um I'm jealous. I'm jealous of all of you because you have a lot more time to do what we do than I do. And you're doing it at a time where it's going to be a lot more exciting because if you just link this and hey, what I love is um it effectively you're creating a new asset
[00:14:43] class, right? This is not private equity. This is about how do you transform incumbent entities into something different, right? Private equity typically optimizes an existing asset class at a certain scale. This is about transformation. So you think of large existing enterprise and I think you have a choice. You have a choice of transform or die. >> And so there's this wonderful moment and but because of some of the incumbent
[00:15:11] advantages, I wouldn't say that it's predetermined which way you're going to go. Right. >> Right. you can actually do this quite quite quickly and I think you're showing the power of private capital can actually do this. >> So we've chatted a lot about this right? So one of the things when you think about transforming a large enterprise what do you really need? You need a few pieces. One is you need data infrastructure that can ready you for
[00:15:31] the enterprise. You need the models adapted to you and then you actually need a new model for how the workforce is going to function because you have agents and humans and there's a massive change management exercise. So a lot of our partnership has been about sort of figuring out okay what is that new model going to be to transform these businesses and what does that mean when you get on the ground you look at
[00:15:50] department by department take HR how do you drive uh transformation of healthcare and how you take care of your people that process is horrible today and we have a business called transparent that goes and essentially creates abundance in that regard which uses AI so you have direct access pentically to all kinds of healthcare services take yourself and then be able ble to be routed whether you need a surgery or you need to have cancer
[00:16:16] therapy or mental health and do it in a way that is seamless cost effective and helps uh enterprises take control of your cost structure you need coding to fundamentally transform that's what anthropic does there are companies working on transforming the call centers there companies working on transforming your sales and marketing but then when you have these technologies in there how are the actual people going to do their
[00:16:37] work in concert with these agentic capabilities that is a whole new model and you know you guys are inventing a talk about that because there's a lot of in innovation that needs to happen in that that whole sort of workforce transformation that I think is ultimately where rubber is going to meet the road on how quickly teams embrace it customers embrace it and we can actually diffuse AI into these businesses
[00:16:57] >> and Bob you've had to deal with this internally at your organization what's the right size and what happens when a piece of technology takes a career and takes out the first five years >> what happens to an organization when you just basically gut the first five years of development. And this is why some people in the economy are looking at AI and they're scared >> and they're looking at AI and saying is this going to benefit me, my family, my
[00:17:28] kids who are graduating from school, this technology, and I think management consulting is the perfect place to look at it. Tell me honestly, the first couple of years you're training up one of these really smart kids to write up, you know, reports and do analysis that can be done with AI today perfectly, close to perfectly. >> Yeah. Um, so I'll give you a a couple stats first on us, then more general. Um, 25 squared and 40,000 and 25,000.
[00:17:59] What do I mean by that? So, let's look at at McKenzie as a bit of a of an incubator. The 25 squared is we're simultaneously doing two things at the same time. So we have client-f facing folks which most of you in the audience would know and think about when you think about a Mackenzie consultant. We're growing that body at 25% next year. 25%. Unprecedented number of uh of of of new hires because the work is changing. They're not doing the stuff
[00:18:29] that you talked about. We saved we looked at it. We saved 1.5 million hours in search and synthesis last year, but we're dividending that to solve more complicated problems and do different things. You guys are probably sick of uh of McKenzie charts out there. You know, we have agents that do this. They just gave you 2.5 million of them in the last 6 months. I want to get rid of charts. But the the consultants are doing
[00:18:51] different things. We're adding 25% to that body. >> So, they're moving up the stack. >> They're moving up the stack and doing these more complicated problem. At the same time though about half our firm uh are nonclientf facing folks. We're down 25% in that group um with 10% increase in output. >> And so simultaneously and I know this is hard also particularly for you know for folks to get we're going to be adding
[00:19:15] and shrinking simultaneously with the two halves. >> And this has never happened in the history of the firm. >> I've our model has always been synonymous that growth only occurs with total headcount growth. Now it's actually splitting. We can grow in this part, the client facing side, and we can shrink in this part and have aggregate growth in total. And that's, you know, that's a new paradigm and a new new dynamic.
[00:19:39] >> We're seeing this in venture. You and I were around for the days where you'd give a team $3 million and they would come back in 18 months having spent it on data centers and building a team of 20 people, 30 people. Then we'd see the first version of the product 18 months later. And then the three billion now. >> Yeah, it's but it's it's insane just uh how much more is getting done with less. And so do we worry about society and our
[00:20:09] industry's ability to communicate to society this change? Because if you were to tell an average business executive 10 years ago, prepare to hire 25% more people on this side of the business and cut 25% on this side of the business. In the same 18month period, their head would explode. >> Exactly. >> What? Why? How come? It doesn't make any sense. And then young people are graduating and they're sending out a 100
[00:20:35] 200 resumes getting no job offers. We were sitting here 10 years ago. every graduate from a decent school was like, I have an Uber, a Coinbase, and a Google offer. Which one should I take for 150K? And those offers just aren't there. So, how do we communicate better as an industry? And then what's the advice to young people coming into the workforce? >> Yeah, look, um, every company in I was just say Silicon Valley, but broadly in
[00:21:00] the tech industry, in the startup industry, what was it? Essentially, it looks like a C corp with a bunch of engineers. But in a world where code self-writes, what what is that next level innovation? What are these companies actually going to do? I think that's ultimately the transition we're going through uh in what does innovation actually mean. It's going to be less about being able to write code fat. It's much more going to
[00:21:20] be about systemically how do we adopt this uh into the world and capabilities to your point about ambiguity in the opening because we don't know about the capabilities of these technologies or the how the world's shaping up. There's a lot of ambiguity. So to me the companies that do really well and the the guide the way we guide the founders a lot of it is become iterative constantly change constantly move forward as opposed to what used to be
[00:21:43] before was become precise find this narrow edge create your growth loop and go build a company. Now it's like constantly iterate and in order to have the customers give you the license to iterate comes down to trust and relationships. So founders that are very good at engaging with customers, building trusting relationships and say, &quot;Hey, we're going to go figure this out together. We know how to leverage this
[00:22:06] technology, but we don't really know how where it leads and what's what the possibilities are.&quot; Will we co-create? And so it the advice I always give is it's all about radical collaboration. In this next phase, we got to figure this out together where different stakeholders that all touch a system are figuring out what this means to them and then what it means in terms of an overall optimization and the
[00:22:25] transformation that we can do with it. you know, one maybe um exciting part to this because I I think you know, you framed it as you're a graduate and how do you get into the workforce and is it getting tougher and um we we did a little bit of work that said um what kind of skills are folks going to need in an AI infused world, right? From an employer's point of view, less the the startup, but you're more an atscale
[00:22:49] enterprise. What can the models not do? And so therefore, what skills will humans play? And the work isn't done but but came back with with kind of three key ideas. Um what can the models not do? Aspire, set the right aspiration. Do you go to low earth orbit? Do you go to the moon? Do you go to Mars? That's a uniquely human capability. So how do you look for the skills about aspiring and getting others to believe in the
[00:23:16] aspiration? >> So leadership and goal setting >> human >> human >> judgment, right? And we've seen a lot around in this room eval. But there's no right and wrong in these models. And so how do you set the right parameters? The architecture um based on firm values, based on societal norms, whatever. How do you build the skills to set what the right parameters are? And then finally, true creativity, right? The models are
[00:23:43] inference models. The next most likely step, how do you think about orthogonal stuff? And so some of the work we've been doing with large enterprises, if you believe in some of that, it can take you back to challenging some of your assumptions on where you look for talent. It actually means that where you went to school matters a lot less. And so, do you start looking for raw intrinsics? Can you widen the base? Can
[00:24:06] you actually look at, let's take a tech background, not which university you graduated from, but what does your GitHub profile look like? Let's actually get to the content. And could that actually start meaning that a wider set of people can enter the workforce with different pathways? >> One of the things you said which really resonates is around creativity because what when you know we were going to college it was all about learn how to
[00:24:30] solve problems really well right and and and now in a world where we have this technology that can solve problems for us. It really is about asking the right questions. It's like going back to that socratic dialogue. It is about creativity and who can imagine best what the world's going to look like and then leverage these technologies to go shape the world towards that. To your point about vision and and teaching our kids,
[00:24:50] you know, I get this question a lot about what do you want how do you want your kids growing up? It's like learning how to ask the right questions versus solving how to you know work on hard problems is a it's a very different mindset and it is about curiosity and kind of back to being kids when you're growing up. It is about challenging your curiosity. Can we actually rethink our pedagogy in a way that we can develop
[00:25:10] this next generation to be more that than it's 8:00 on Wednesday morning and I'm going to factor polinomials cuz I'm in you know 7th grade which is what our system looks like today. >> Yeah. The the advice I've been giving to young people is there's nobody coming for you. There's no training program. You have to make that for yourself >> and do not go in through the front door with a resume. just email the CEO of the
[00:25:35] company >> and redesign their landing page and say, &quot;These are the three things that I think could be better and I saw you speak on this podcast. I think your company's incredible. I would love to come work there and I did this spec work.&quot; Now, people are like, &quot;Why should I do free work to get a job to prove you actually have a skill that is meaningful?&quot; You're not going to be able to get into a
[00:25:56] training program. So many folks now in corporate America, especially the the people who are onboarding people are just like hiring somebody and training them is going to take longer than building an agent. I can build an agent. Young people coming into the workforce I have to train are annoying. Setting up an agent who just does the work is easy. That's the game on the field right now that people don't want to talk about. Which means to stand out,
[00:26:21] you're going to have to show hootsp. You're going to have to show drive. You're going to have to show passion. And what college is doing that? What college is teaching that? What course is that? >> We look, I think there's a massive gap in resilience. Yes. You know, resilience. Because what you've got under that is you're going to get knocked down. >> Yeah. Right. The question is, do you get back up? >> And how do you get back up? And I think
[00:26:43] the the educational system today doesn't necessarily build institutional or individual capability in resilience. If we could wave a magic wand, just to go off on a complete tangent here, what should the education system look like in 2026? Because you're buying businesses, you have one in healthcare. That's one of the three hardest businesses to make change in historically. The other two here in America that have the most
[00:27:08] regulation, are the most expensive, and are the hardest, and that Americans are suffering under the most are housing and education. Those are the three big ones. When I run for president, that's going to be my platform. is those three. I'm going to solve those three. But go ahead and solve education for us right now. And are you going to buy a college next >> transform? Basically buying business all the businesses that make no money. Is that
[00:27:30] where we're going? >> Um I I would say >> oh the businesses that are the most >> Yeah. But the ones that need to endure for the longest actually. That's the way I look at it. So here's the thing about education. This idea that we spend 22 years learning and then we spend 40 years working is a broken idea. if if the the learning of technology and the development of technology is going to be so dynamic. So what about going from a
[00:27:52] four-year college to a lifelong college which is actually your relationship with learning is that it's a lifelong skilling and reskilling outcome experience. We've talked about this before as well. I mean there's there's there's some innovative college presidents that are thinking about that which is first of all better business better lifetime value if you're a college and you actually have a a client or a student you know for perpetuity
[00:28:13] versus paying you for four years. and much more um useful for us to be able to go and have that capability and constantly learn what these cap technologies are doing and how the workforce is evolving and how to stay ahead in terms of where the opportunity is. This so learning has to become much more fluid and we need to become a community of lifelong learners uh as as we adapt to a world where AI is being diffusing you know through us over the
[00:28:39] years. And I would just add uh I'm I'm with you on this and you know that the system built close to 700 years ago was designed around a high fixed cost libraries and professors to then take you out for a a finite period of time to learn and then effectively you're set off into the workforce. I if you start to think about the half-life of skills getting shorter and shorter and we've done some work at our global institute
[00:29:08] that said for an employer the return on investment that you give an employee in terms of skills has shrunk by about half over the last 30 years used to be about seven years return it's less than four years so about 3.6 six years now return and that's only getting shorter and shorter as things change. So if you if you believe that I think you start to pivot to are we teaching people to continue to learn new things as opposed
[00:29:31] to master a particular subject. Do you have that ability? Um, one of the things that um, we've now indexed on and I mentioned this 40,000 and 25,000 that is the number of humans we have and the number of personalized agents we have as of last week in McKenzie and I think we'll be at parody before the end of uh, by the end of this year. So you're literally deploying agents that can do a full 360 degree trusted job function.
[00:29:57] >> Absolutely. >> Where is it working really well and where is it not working well? It works when you have a specific um domain area that you know ultimately where value can be created. So for us that's in structured problem solving. It's in around search and synthesis. It's around commu more effective communication these types of of domain areas. But where I was going with this so the skill is are you skilling people