[00:00:04] We just had a very successful all-in spirited full contact debate in front of 1,700 people. A packed house. There were no open seats. Is the power of the all-in brand is really to have the conversations with a little bit of fun, a little bit of spiciness and no question, no topic can be banned. There was no censorship. No censorship. We're going to just go right after the hardest topics. But we had a really fun time. Discussed so many
[00:00:28] important topics. What a great panel. These guys are tip of the spear in terms of doing really exciting things in business. >> Thanks for coming out everybody. Uh we're going to have a great super hardcore discussion about the future specifically around AI which I think is the most important theme not only of uh CES 2026 as we've seen with all the incredible gadgets chips being launched self-driving but it's going to be the
[00:00:59] most important transformation of our lifetimes. I think everything we've seen over the last 30 years of technology from the PC revolution to cloud computing to the internet, mobile, all of that is going to be dwarfed in comparison to the impact that AI is going to have on society. If you're here at CES, you know that you're here for that reason. And we've got two amazing guests who are going to join us to have
[00:01:23] this debate. And additionally, I've brought my box, a box filled with all the ghosts and gadgets of Christmas past. And we're going to go through those uh at the end of our discussion. But here's a quick video of our guests who will be joining me today. >> From boardrooms to the White House and beyond, Mackenzie's influence in business is virtually unparalleled. >> It's one of the largest and most influential consulting firms in the
[00:01:49] world. enterprise can move faster than any of us expected, which is good news because these problems aren't going to be the problems of the next generation. They're going to be the problems of our leadership generation. Making this system of government better on both efficiency and effectiveness is key for economic growth and for national defense. We also think that some of the private sector insights that we have
[00:02:11] brought to the public sector can drive innovation. Our next guest leads venture capital firm General Catalyst >> with 40 billion in assets under management as of midyear. >> Our aspirations in venture capital is to be the best seed firm in the world. The decisions we're making, the companies we're building are going to impact the world for centuries to come. >> Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Bob Sternfelds and Hamont Tasia.
[00:02:40] >> All right, gentlemen. Welcome. Yeah. All right team. Let's do it. Let's do it. >> How do you look at the pace of innovation and change in this past two years since Chat GPT was launched compared to the first 30 years of our careers. We're all of a certain Gen X age. Compare the last two or three years to the 30 before it. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, first Jason, thanks. And it's great to be up here with you guys. And uh yeah, I would just say this
[00:03:13] week is amazing. I I um think there's over 150,000 folks here this week. And you talk about CES being back. I think CES is back. And uh and that's great, right? And uh >> and with all of these things happening, I think there is such a premium on folks from different perspectives getting together because that's where new ideas are created. And and my big hope and why we're here is when you mix and mingle with different folks, you come up with
[00:03:40] new things and the world needs new things and you and what I love is you mentioned a lot of the the tech leaders. What's exciting for this is I think everybody sees tech as part of the equation. And and so when I look at the folks here in CES, you see not only the technology leaders, the investors, but you see folks from almost every industry vertical that are here now because they know that technology doesn't sit on the
[00:04:03] side, it's central to everything we do. And I get to your question, look, I think we're moving at at literally warp speed now. It's just night and day different. It's almost a, you know, BC A type of thing when you can see the change of pace. And I haven't met a CEO yet that isn't talking about how do I get my organization moving faster. It's quite frankly less about strategy. It's more about organizational speed. Hey
[00:04:29] Mont, how does this feel compared to our first, you know, couple of decades where companies would take two or three years to release a product and now companies are releasing products in two or three weeks, two or three months. >> Yeah. So look, the world has completely changed, right? We we've often said this is peak ambiguity. You have massive geopolitical change. You have an incredible amount of change around every
[00:04:54] country trying to drive strategic autonomy in different industries. And all those dynamics keep changing. Alliances, the new world order, everything. And then underneath that, our tool of implementation is technology that keeps changing, right? So what the the technologies can build today versus what the LLM could do, let's say, two years ago or November 22, let's say, when Chad GBD came about is fundamentally different. So what are you
[00:05:17] building towards as to what the world's going to look like so you can have enduring value? And then what are you building with where the technologies you're using aren't going to obsoles and and destroy your value proposition over time. It's just all kinds of change. And so it's really dynamic time. And the other thing you will see is you know we invested in Stripe in 2010. It became a you know a hundred billion dollar
[00:05:40] company let's say 12 13 years later. You look at Antropic, which we're also investors in, that goes from $60 billion last year to, you know, a couple hundred billion. So like, and by the way, with good economic uh progress, these are not pie in the sky valuations. They're based on actual growth of the business. Well, that goes back to your point, which is the compression of how fast value can create when code self-writes and access to
[00:06:06] distributions change. So fundamentally, it's just it's just really exciting and I think it's going to accelerate from here. This was one of the statistics we would look at in venture capital. Hey, how long does it take this company to get to a hundred million in revenue? How long does it take to get to a billion in revenue? Unpack anthropic and that journey because this company's revenue and you have open AI obviously they're
[00:06:27] contemporary trending towards $20 billion in revenue a year. Where's anthropic at and what's the revenue mix? Where does the revenue come from? Well, well, look, so Enthropic builds u language models. It's got one of some of the best models out there. There's a couple of companies that are doing a good job at that. And then they've got cloud on top, which is to me the essence of transforming the engineering department of enterprise, right? And
[00:06:50] that's a killer application where everybody is now using these tools. So that business when we invested was doing about $880 million, which was a 10x growth from the year before, >> 10x year, >> 10x growth the year before. and and then and this last year they've announced this they're growing another 10x or more and so when you look at that and we invested uh at the $60 billion valuation assuming it's going to be like 3x growth
[00:07:13] from there because those are staggering numbers and it does 10x can't predict it uh but to see adoption is so fast and so you look at that and say so we ended up investing at you know um a 8910 billion kind of run rate business at 60 billion that's the cheapest deal that got done last year in venture capital on financial spaces. So, so we just have to get our head around what does scale really mean and what you know are we in
[00:07:39] the business of creating what we used to think was like can we create decoorns now we're talking about can we create trillion dollar companies right I mean that's not a pie in the sky idea with anthropic and uh open AI and a couple others game changed scale of technology is uh you know fundamentally different in what it can do >> Bob what's behind this massive revenue ramp because you get to see all the incumbent businesses you get see the
[00:08:04] elite businesses that are growing, you know, two or three times X each year. You also get to see the ones that are struggling and then you see these large numbers and 10x your growth. What what's driving this in your mind and is it sustainable? I mean, that's the other question. I hate to give you the the classic consultant answer, but I you know, I I do think it depends. And I I think we're at a we're at a we're at a
[00:08:28] tipping point this year. And I'll tell you why. I think what's underpinning this 10x and 10x you know we work with most of the large enterprise in the world um across all industry verticals and what we have seen is a huge uptake of leveraging these technologies like anthropic we're we're we're leveraging anthropic and so large enterprise is using technology at a scale and rate that they haven't before and if you look
[00:08:52] at IT spend as a percent of revenue etc all this stuff has gone up and I think that is propelling the 10x to 10x um The conundrum is, and it's, you know, been widely written about, um, realizing enterprise at scale value in non-technology companies is proving harder than people think. >> Got it. So, in plain English, that means, hey, you've got a travel company. There's somebody deploying AI and you're watching what's happening at Tesla or
[00:09:22] Google, and they're getting these phenomenal results, but maybe that legacy business is having a harder time achieving those results. I'll make it even simpler. Uh typical non- tech CEO might say, &quot;Hey, Bob, do I listen to my CFO or my CIO right now, >> right?&quot; CFO is saying, &quot;We've spent all this money. Why do we need to be the fast adopter? I'm not seeing the ROI yet. Can we pause?&quot; CIO is saying, &quot;Are
[00:09:45] you freaking crazy? This is the moment that if we don't, we'll be disrupted.&quot; We think, now I will say the the shining part is I think there's a path where you bring those two together as allies. and you say, &quot;Yeah, but let's rethink this, get out of pilot purgatory, really think the reorganization, all this stuff.&quot; There is a path, but I think right now most CEOs are getting torn a bit between, &quot;Do I listen to my CFO or do I
[00:10:07] listen to my CIO?&quot; And I think this is a really good jump off point, Hamont, of your strategy at General Catalyst. You and I have known each other for a long time. You really a long time, decades, and you always prided yourself on being the great seed fund. We're gonna we're going to get to these companies when they're $10 million and 10 people and put that first check in. But then I saw this news item go by a month ago that
[00:10:34] you raised N billion and then I see you're buying companies. So are you out of the seed business and now doing random acts of private equity? What's going on here? >> Explain to me the strategy and general catalyst. >> How much time do we have? It's going to take some time. So, so look, I would say um uh we very much view ourselves as a venture capital for Americ for the 25 years we've been around has been meeting founders where they are.
[00:11:02] And what that means is essentially help them navigate ambiguity in the past when they're sort of beginning and the business isn't clear uh all the way to figuring out how to scale in the complex markets that they go into. So everything we've done has been in that context of creating these catalysts the flexible capital they need the policy capabilities they need the market access they need uh and those sort of
[00:11:25] relationships globally to actually build an enduring company. So that hasn't changed. So So why did we go um you know acquire a health system in u uh Ohio was a nonprofit. We worked with the attorney general converted it. And I say this by the way with a great sense of responsibility because that's a community of uh in Akran Ohio that we take care of. So that hospital has to continue operations in all the dimensions. It takes care of um with
[00:11:50] people. We bought it to actually have a place where we can work with our founders and transform with AI create abundance and resilience for this health system so we can take care of the people a lot better. Okay. And if we if we did that then we can go do that for the other hundreds of systems across the country and be able to do that. So some of it is that's market access. It's very hard for healthcare startups to go
[00:12:13] deploy successfully at scale in these systems. We are going to go show how. we're gonna actually go on the ground with do with them and show what the world how so it can transform the health system. The you know your other point about uh sort of buying uh companies we look at that as there's a lot of workforce transformation happening. Bob and I talk a lot about this. I think work fundamentally in these companies is
[00:12:34] going to change. So if you're a call center in uh an emerging country today the a declining asset value because you know it's going to be place displaced with AI. So we look at that and say well but those are customers on the other side. If we bought that as a piece of the puzzle to work with an early stage founder to learn how to quickly accelerate adoption of AI into uh the call center space and serve these
[00:12:58] customers and scale a lot faster. The compressed value creation we're talking about that is uh that is a new playbook. So this is not about trying to be PE. This is about acquiring uh uh businesses in PE that actually have declining value but have important customers that need to be served and help them get to that AI transformation that Bob's talking about faster by getting our founders in there. This is extraordinary Bob when
[00:13:22] you think about it just so the audience can put their head around this venture capitalist used to back founders to then be the barbarians at the gate to try to take on these big industries. Now these big industries in some cases are in significant decline struggling and the venture capitalists are coming in and saying we'll just buy the castle, open the draw bridge. We're going to buy it so that we can take our startups and
[00:13:47] accelerate whether it's healthcare, financial services or customer support uh and outsourcing, business process outsourcing. And essentially we don't we don't care about that business economically necessarily as much as we care about it for access to that customer base running McKenzie. This is a playbook that is like coming out of the future in a time capsule and saying we're going to just upend the entire ecosystem. Yeah.
[00:14:16] >> Yeah. I mean, it's I I just gave a talk at a um a university and uh was was talking to some potential folks to to join us and I said, &quot;Look, um I'm jealous. I'm jealous of all of you because you have a lot more time to do what we do than I do. And you're doing it at a time where it's going to be a lot more exciting because if you just link this and hey, what I love is um it effectively you're creating a new asset
[00:14:43] class, right? This is not private equity. This is about how do you transform incumbent entities into something different, right? Private equity typically optimizes an existing asset class at a certain scale. This is about transformation. So you think of large existing enterprise and I think you have a choice. You have a choice of transform or die. >> And so there's this wonderful moment and but because of some of the incumbent
[00:15:11] advantages, I wouldn't say that it's predetermined which way you're going to go. Right. >> Right. you can actually do this quite quite quickly and I think you're showing the power of private capital can actually do this. >> So we've chatted a lot about this right? So one of the things when you think about transforming a large enterprise what do you really need? You need a few pieces. One is you need data infrastructure that can ready you for
[00:15:31] the enterprise. You need the models adapted to you and then you actually need a new model for how the workforce is going to function because you have agents and humans and there's a massive change management exercise. So a lot of our partnership has been about sort of figuring out okay what is that new model going to be to transform these businesses and what does that mean when you get on the ground you look at
[00:15:50] department by department take HR how do you drive uh transformation of healthcare and how you take care of your people that process is horrible today and we have a business called transparent that goes and essentially creates abundance in that regard which uses AI so you have direct access pentically to all kinds of healthcare services take yourself and then be able ble to be routed whether you need a surgery or you need to have cancer
[00:16:16] therapy or mental health and do it in a way that is seamless cost effective and helps uh enterprises take control of your cost structure you need coding to fundamentally transform that's what anthropic does there are companies working on transforming the call centers there companies working on transforming your sales and marketing but then when you have these technologies in there how are the actual people going to do their