[00:14:08] produce liquid methane in this country with a lower carbon footprint, then that methane might be produced elsewhere, which is the case. We use we have cleaner methods for production. And that demand exists regardless of whether or not the United States produces it. It's important that the United States take advantage of the opportunity to produce it cleaner, more safely, and with a lower footprint and and build economic
[00:14:29] prosperity for us as exporters. Yes, absolutely. I mean, so the the the net formula that you've just described is the more energy that's produced in the United States, the better it is for the globe and the better it is for American prosperity. And I would say it's not just for the globe environmentally. It's also for for peace. It's not just prosperity at home, but literally the two the two proxy wars that we've been
[00:14:49] involved in with Russia after Russia invaded Ukraine and after uh you know Iran funding 24 different terror groups, they were funding those wars against us with their oil and gas sales. And so if if we can replace their customers with US sources, they have less revenue. They have less funding literally to fund terrorism. So it is prosperity at home, peace abroad, it's nothing short of that. So let's talk about the energy
[00:15:12] demand equation. The US is forecasted to increase its electricity production capacity from 1 to 2 terowatt by 2040 15 years from now. During that same period of time, China is going to go from 3 to 8 terowatt. And that China forecast, by the way, excludes any of the Gen 4 nuclear reactors, the new hydroelectric facilities, and the new thorium, or if that ever scales that they're considering rolling out in addition to
[00:15:36] what they've already planned to roll out. So, in the next 15 years, China is adding five Americas. Yes. In electricity, production capacity. And if everything gets automated, factories are automated, AI becomes the great accelerant of the global economy, China is hugely advantaged relative to where we sit today. What do we need to do about it? Well, this is the if you were to ask me what's the thing that keeps me
[00:15:59] awake at night. Uh this is this is the issue and it's so thrilling and refreshing that you understand the scale, the magnitude and the importance of this uh the AI arms race which is really driven by access to electricity. And China last year brought on 94 and a half gigawatts of coal powered electricity. One gawatt is Denver. So they brought on 94 Denvers just last year. That's more than all we have today for all of California and all of New
[00:16:28] York is less than 94. So they added a New York and a California worth of electricity last year just from coal. They're still getting 60% of their base load from coal. And people people may they stop listening when they hear the word coal. But coal from an electricity standpoint, thermal coal uh is fantastic base load. uh it has, you know, all the characteristics to allow you to maintain amperage and voltage to keep a system
[00:16:52] going. And I think we just saw in Spain, you know, they were celebrating on April 12th of this past month that they'd shut down their last coal plant. And then a week after that, they were celebrating the fact that they had their first day of 100% renewables on their system. And then the next week, uh they were global news story because people were trapped in subways. Uh all airline flights canled. uh hospitals were panicking with
[00:17:14] a lack of power uh because they had a uh you know a rolling blackout and grid failure because it just defies physics. You can't run an electrical grid with just intermittent power. You cannot run with something that is based in intermittent is the definition of solar or wind because the sun doesn't shine at night uh and the wind doesn't blow every day and you can have have it and so we in America we became dangerously close
[00:17:39] to that right now. We've got parts of our country that are at risk for those same kind of of what I'll call the Biden brownouts and blackouts to happen because we overs subsidized the intermittent and we overregulated uh all of the base load in an idea to quote save the planet and all we're doing is potentially putting our own country at risk. So it was regulatory action that's been taken and I've got to imagine it's
[00:18:02] not just the Biden administration. This has to go back cuz this is in 35 years in this country, we only added6 terowatts of electricity production capacity to the grid. What's gone on in this country that's made it so hard for us to operate more efficiently in terms of adding new energy capacity to the grid? Is it regulatory only or are there capital, social and other reasons that this has become a challenge for us? Well, the the
[00:18:26] regulatory uh attack was a whole of government. So, it did attack the formation of capital. I mean, you you came up with regulatory rules that made it impossible for for base load power uh from fossil fuels even, you know, get a permit. Well, if you can't get a permit, then you can't get access to capital. You can't get access to insurance. Uh and then you had, you know, protest and social media and everybody going online
[00:18:47] saying, "Oh, we've got to exit from all this." And this same phenomena happened in Germany. Uh it's I think it's very clear right now that a lot of that a lot of what I call the social mediadriven uh concerns were part of you know scops operations from places like Russia. I mean it was Russia's great advantage to get Germany to shut down nuclear to shut down all their coal production and hey we have a solution just buy all your
[00:19:10] natural gas from us. So Germany spent a half a trillion dollars$500 billion dollars on the quote air quotes transition to to green energy. They were transitioning to wind and solar. H half a trillion, $500 billion. They today produce 20% less electricity. And that electricity cost three times as much as it did before they began the transition. And now we have the the war, you know, with Russia inventing Ukraine. What are
[00:19:37] they doing? They were scrambling to try to reopen coal plants. They were scrambling to try to get back in the nuclear game. They were saying, "Wow, we overshot the mark. We went too far." Uh again, highly subsidizing uh intermittent sources. And so it it's like I think part of the awakening that is occurring right now is that if the the greatest existential threat to the planet and to America is not one degree
[00:19:59] of climate change in the year 2100 because guess what innovation will solve will solve any challenges that we have with climate change with innovation and we won't have innovation without electricity and actually losing the AI arms race to China uh is the real threat. I do agree with you. I'll be declarative on this because a lot of people ask me I started a company called the climate corporation. We talked a lot
[00:20:20] about climate change. I believe deeply in a lot of this climate science, but I also believe more deeply that innovation will solve a lot of the challenges that may arise. And there's a whole series of solutions that are developing. And we can talk a little bit about some of those longerterm solutions that ultimately yield to unlimited free scalable energy production. And when that happens, you know, all bets are
[00:20:44] off. No. And some of that could and we have line of sight to that. Yeah. And some of that could be coming in the next decade. It doesn't help us today cuz today uh we've got to shore it up. And I think one thing that you know having spent 30 years in tech, we never used more than 1% of the nation's electrical production and it was because uh computers were getting more tech. Yeah. Tech the tech industry. Tech industry.
[00:21:04] We used 1% and no one paid any attention and the tech industry didn't pay any attention to power generation because they didn't have to because PCs got more efficient, software got more efficient and then America was rich. we everyone was buying appliances that were more efficient. So there was wasn't ever really a demand curve on electricity. But then today with AI, the demand curve is just flying in the face. And when I
[00:21:26] was at at uh Sarah Week, which is the biggest uh energy conclave, uh when I was speaking to the group, I said there's something different here this year. And what's different is the five biggest tech companies in America showed up at that conference with $300 billion dollar of capex. you know, the big ones have got 75 billion 75 billion a piece, you know, for the top ones on that chart. And and I'll reflect back to not
[00:21:52] that long ago, a couple decades ago, I was a corporate officer at Microsoft for seven years. I never went to a capex meeting, right? Somebody said, "Well, weren't you invited?" I said, "No, there were no capex meetings." You know, we hired salespeople and software developers, and if we needed an office in Singapore or Munich, we rented it, leased it, and so there was no capex. And now they showed up at that conference and I had to speak to all the
[00:22:14] executives and said, "Look, these guys aren't here trying to sell you software. They're your biggest customers. They need power and they will do anything." And the regulated uh power providers and some in the industry have just have never seen a demand curve. So, it's like a collision between high-tech and the power generation in America. And and coming from that, we've got to figure out a way to break through this. We just
[00:22:34] got back from DC. There was this hill and valley forum this week. Every single speech, every single talk, every conversation in the hallways was all about the energy demand coming from AI. I don't think the public realizes, I don't think the broad business community realizes how energy hungry AI is and how this is going to ramp up like no one's ever seen in history. And by the way, we haven't yet seen the ramp up of robotics
[00:22:59] and automation. There's going to be a breakthrough in the next year or two that's going to unleash this additional demand curve. We're going to have a 100red million robots in the United States that are all electrified. They all got to get charged up. That power has got to come from somewhere. So, this feels like a massive challenge for America, like going to the moon, fighting World War II in Europe, a Manhattan Project style set of solutions
[00:23:24] are needed to address this. What is this council that you're leading, the National Energy Dominance Council, doing? What are kind of the top three things that you think unlock the energy potential in the United States and meet the demand curve that's kind of tidal waving its way across this country right now? Well, I'd say that the the good news is that we have a president of the United States that understands this.
[00:23:49] Yeah. And that's why on day one in office, he declared an energy emergency. some folks that aren't familiar with what you've just described, uh, this awareness that we've we're facing a crisis, uh, were, you know, questioning whether we had an energy emergency, but as you've just described, we have a huge one relative to our grid, grid stability. We don't have enough power to win the AI arms race. And AI arms race
[00:24:12] means without that, we lose the defense battle because it's not just robotics in manufacturing. you know, if we're going to have a golden dome, if we're going to have any, you know, ability to defend ourselves from hypersonics or, you know, protect our fleet uh around the ocean, not to have them all wiped out in the first hour of a conflict, we have to have AI uh both targeting and a defense standpoint. So, you can't separate
[00:24:37] defense from AI anymore either. So, this is it's mission critical. So, with that with that energy emergency, then we have to pull out all stops. So, back to NE DC. Uh, which by the way, for those that are easy to remember, it's like AC/DC. It's NEC. And then we could even have a little lightning bolt in the logo. I don't know if you're going to get there, Doug, but but you know, t-shirt have t-shirts with I actually might make that
[00:24:57] t-shirt for you. I'll I mean, I think it's You guys sell swag on this podcast. I think that's going to be the new one. Uh, new bestseller. Anyway, with with the You could sell that swag. You know, we could fund a new energy program. Yeah, we go with with the but with our We're not a organization. We're like a small tiger team and think of it more like a governor's economic development super super team. President Trump is
[00:25:20] asking us to find things that are critical to the infrastructure where they're running into roadblocks and then help them. I want to say white glove concier service. Help them get the permit, help them get started. The capital is there. It's often a regulatory thing that's stopping uh you know like natural gas getting into New England. We've got I mean we're never going to build an AI data center in New York or in New England if the price of
[00:25:44] natural gas is three times higher than it is in Pennsylvania. And yet they're still campaigning on, hey, we blocked this natural gas pipeline. You know, I mean, everybody in Pennsylvania loves that because they'll get all the data centers, they'll get all the advanced manufacturing. I mean, we've got, you know, in Arizona, you've got, you know, the TSMC plant coming there that's going to require enormous amounts of power. uh
[00:26:05] people want to put data centers there and yet you know their utility is just shutting down a coal plant and it's like okay how are you going to power this stuff and so one of the goals we have is don't shut down any more base load preserve what we have uh and help you know get other get new sources of power permitted does that include nuclear some of the reactor shutdowns that are planned yeah we got to keep everything
[00:26:26] going and we got to go fast on the small modular nuclear and but again that's really kind of in the 2030s so there that's that's in our next it's it's in important uh but it's a little less urgent. We need to fasttrack all that stuff long term. That's where the solutions will likely lie. But in between now 2025 and 2030 uh a lot of it's going to come back to LG because that the fastest thing we can get online
[00:26:49] uh for more electricity generation is uh LG power plants. LG power plants. So that's number one. I mean, just to frame things up for folks, you know, you mentioned the city of Denver utilizes about a 1 gawatt of of electricity, a standard Gen 2 scaled nuclear reactor facilities producing about a gigawatt. And these small modular reactors, these SMRs as they're called that China now has demonstrated 5 megawatts. They can
[00:27:14] be small, they can be located in an office complex or in a downtown area of a city. And they're designed to have redundant systems for safety and not having meltdowns and so on. talk a little bit about the opportunity for nuclear. You know, you're seeing the 2030s. Meanwhile, China's got several hundred that they're in construction on. There's clearly technology available today. Uranium is not hard to get. We
[00:27:36] have a lot of it. Thorium is not hard to get. We have an incredible amount of thorium. Those are the two fuel sources. Why can't we move faster with nuclear? What's the hold back? And why is the US so different than China in being able to scale up nuclear? A big difference is again back to the regulatory environment. I mean the the regulatory environment on nuclear uh has been so burdensome uh in terms of adding to the
[00:28:01] cost and the time frame and bring it on that and then when that cost was put onto a utility and then utility felt they had to put that back on the rate on the on their on the uh the rate payers their consumer customers uh there was in some ways a revolt and it wasn't safety related. It was like oh you want nuclear but now my electricity is going to cost twice as much. I'm not for that. So we have to be able to get that regulatory
[00:28:22] regime down and allow them to go faster. And of course on the SMRs once that design gets approved we should be able to have essentially like a manufacturing where we've we've we regulate the design the design is proven and prove out. As long as the manufacturing plant is producing that same design then we don't have to do this stick built show up you know you work for a week the inspector shows up oh this is off by you know one
[00:28:47] millimeter you got to redo it. I mean some of that is where you end up with doubling of co I mean you can't I mean some of the projects that have just been completed you know that took you know close to two decades on nuclear and then had double the cost and double the time you know that's that's not economically sustainable. So part of it is we've got to streamline the process, but these smaller amounts, they can be daisy
[00:29:07] chained. They could be great solutions. And then the other piece which you love about having the small moducer is we can spend money on power generation as opposed to money on transmission because transmission is also it's really hard to build a transmission line in this country because whether it's a linear infrastructure which includes natural gas pipelines CO2 pipelines oil and gas pipelines or transmission lines those
[00:29:30] become the focal point for protests because if they have any nexus an 1100 mile long pipeline could have one mile that touches federal ground. That is where the protest is going to occur. So, going back to your deregulatory action, can you do that in the seat that you're in? Who can take that deregulatory action? Do you need Congress to get involved? I I've got a great partner, Chris Wright, uh, incredibly talented,