[00:40:49] finance, tech, venture guy, you could say, "Okay, we'll we'll allow uh the federal government to be the worst. You guys can have a 1% return on your natural assets. That would be $1 trillion." Okay, last year, Interior brought in 22 billion. So, so we're off we're off by a factor of 50 from having bad performance on getting a return on investment for the American people. I guess you know the assets only count if
[00:41:14] you can access them, utilize them, monetize them. We all know from a finance perspective there's goodwill that could sit on an asset line and doesn't mean anything at the end of the day. If you can't monetize it, it's not worth much. So, how do you think about the target you're going after? Is it a trillion? And then when do you develop and deliver a plan to the American people that says, "Guys, here's our target. Here's when we're going to get
[00:41:37] there." Do you think about it that way? We don't have a target yet because we don't even know what the base unused resources. I mean, we're trying to get our hands around, you know, what what is our timber worth? What is our, you know, oil and gas? And that goes back to the core mission of the US Geologic Survey. Its original core mission was to map. So, when we say it's, you know, it's it's map, baby, map. uh because then
[00:41:57] that can tell you, you know, where you're supposed to mine, baby mine, where you're supposed to drill, baby drill. But getting back to the mapping and working with the private sector, who's outstripped, who's outstripped. I mean, ground penetrating radar, uh, is, you know, a new advancement, uh, that's, you know, more accurate than seismic and less intrusive. And we need to really understand what America's balance sheet
[00:42:16] is. And some of that's going to take some work for us to get out there and really survey it. And, and then when we have that, that's public domain. publish that information and that'll help the private sector steer where they should put their resources to help develop this. Let's talk about mining. The United States used to mine. You and I had a dinner a couple weeks ago. You gave me a statistic which I hadn't heard
[00:42:37] before, which is we only graduate 200 people in degrees in mining today. Why did we stop mining? Why did we stop developing our own natural resources and shift to a model where we're buying dependent and now have critical supply chain dependencies? What happened in the United States? Well, I think there was there was some, you know, our country was a powerful and great minor and it was when you think back to, you know,
[00:43:01] even the early 1900s, you think about where we were, you know, what we were doing in gold and silver and then, you know, through World War II, uh, and even up into the 1980s, we were still very strong as a mining country and a mining industry. And then and then uh there were some environmental issues that environmental awareness you had some super fund sites and and it just became you know one of the focal points of the
[00:43:22] attack of of uh of hey then it sort of was all a sudden all mining was bad as opposed to one operator in one location uh that you know maybe wasn't maintained right and so then I think whether it was young people choosing careers or whether it was press whatever but then the regulatory environment piled on in a heavy way to the point that you know it's just amazing one of the resolution copper. We're just in the process now of
[00:43:47] issuing them a permit. It's taken about three months here in the Trump administration. They started this process over 29 years ago. Wow. I mean, this is this is this has gone three decade long saga to open up a copper mine. And guess what? We need copper more than we've ever needed before. I mean, it's it's part of, you know, every electric motor. It's a part of all of the advanced stuff that we're building.
[00:44:08] And and so, I mean, it's thrilling that we're going to open a copper mine in America. And then some of the mines that have barely hung on uh but are still going whether it's gold or silver uh or others uranium in some cases uh along with that mining process there are critical minerals that are adjacent. I mean we can add a critical minerals refining because it's not just that we aren't mining those raw materials. China
[00:44:31] has got the corner on the refining not just mine to refine. So when they're in they're in the you know the the Congo in Africa pulling out those those those those rich research rich minerals they're bringing those back to China. We've got examples of companies in America that were mining in America but there was no process. They were sending it to China and China was doing the refining. Well now we're in a we're
[00:44:52] literally in a in a in a war around these critical minerals which we need for defense. Uh and and we don't have a stockpile. So part of what we're concerned with right now and said you know how do we get capital flowing back to mining? How do we start building stockpiles in America the way we have the strategic petroleum reserve across the top 20 most important critical minerals? And then how do we derisk it,
[00:45:13] you know, if someone's going to get into mining? And do we need uh like a sovereign risk insurance, but not because you're working overseas because you're working here because the next administration may use an EO to wipe out your mine. Uh, and so again, giving giving the capital providers the confidence that if somehow they're regulated out of business, they'll get compensated through an insurance program. And what about in your role
[00:45:35] administering the EPA, looking out for environmental standards, protecting our environment, protecting our communities, there were toxic super fund sites. What's the thinking from your point of view on making sure that we're doing this in a clean way and how important that is in this calculus? Well, Lee Zeldon, uh, our EPA administrator is is also a key part of the energy dominance council, as is about half of the
[00:45:57] cabinet. I mean, we've got, you know, Howard Lutnik, Scott Bessant, uh, Brook Rollins, you know, from a with US forest everything. There's literally about half the cabinet. Uh, transportation, Sean Duffy's on there. Uh, everybody's, you know, part of this team of trying to solve this larger complex thing. But I would say that the one thing we forget about when we often there's these national discussions which is that every
[00:46:19] state also has a regulatory environment. And in my time as governor, one thing I learned was that there was I had I never met a bureaucrat from DC that cared more about the land, the water, the soil health or the air in our state than the people that lived there and the people that worked for our own DEEQ. And so when people say, "Oh, you know, we're reducing headcount at the EPA. The world's going to fall apart." No, we
[00:46:42] have two issues with regulation. One is is the overreach which is you have people going beyond the law on their original charter and regulating things you know regulate when they're supposed to be regulating water and I need and a water permit should be about turbidity and temperature and is the fish in this area going to be affected as opposed to oh oh we're not giving this permit because we're worried about climate
[00:47:05] change is because the thing in your pipe is natural gas. I mean that's a real example. That's how Cuomo knocked out a a permit that was, you know, way beyond what the law said. I mean, if there was an issue with how the company was crossing a water course, like 38,000 other LG crossings of of water courses in America, if there's a real problem, then tell them that and they'll horizontally direct drill it 50 feet
[00:47:28] below the bottom of the river. It'll never touch the river and give them a permit. Instead, they'd be like, "No, you know, there's no permit because we're concerned about climate change." That's overreach. But the overlap that occurs every day is that the federal government infrastructure is overlapping with the states. And there isn't a need to do both of those things. And and you might, you know, go to path for, you
[00:47:48] know, two years, three years and get your federal permit and then find out, oh, that a state like New York is is not going to provide it. Or you might get a a permit in six months in a in a state that's that can efficiently do permitting and get all the work done and take care of everything and then find out that the federal government's going to sit on it for an entire presidential term because they're ideologically
[00:48:08] opposed. When we do that to ourselves, then we have no chance against a country like China that is focused on on on an outcome which is they're going to achieve prosperity. they're going to achieve uh all of their environmental goals by having the power to have all the solutions as opposed to uh the uh the environment we have now which restricts that that innovation. President Trump's uh just finished his 100 days in office. Are you glad you
[00:48:34] took the job? What's been most surprising for you since you've been in the role? Well, I'm I'm having a blast. Uh and I'm thrilled to be in this position where we can have an impact. you know, you get up every day and it's a little bit like the old uh, you know, World War II uh, you know, Marines in the Pacific would say, you know, the bad, you know, we're in a foxhole. The bad we're in a foxhole, we're on a
[00:48:53] beach. The bad news is, uh, you know, we're surrounded. The good news is we can attack in any direction. And and so every day you can get up and go make a difference in in people's lives. And and that's and for anybody that's in tech or anybody that's listening, you know, that poo poos public service, they ought to really think about the fact, I mean, we need people that are, as Teddy Roosevelt said, that are willing to get in the
[00:49:13] arena because in these jobs, uh, that are, you know, really purposeful, you can make a difference for a lot of people thing. But what's surprising about the job was I I knew that the from a tech standpoint because I lived through it eight years in North Dakota where where where state government wasn't up to speed on just basic technology and basic business systems and all the things that that uh that that reduce productivity and create uh I
[00:49:41] say agony for state or federal employees. I mean, we we asked them to do mind-numbing and soul sucking work for like 20% of their time because we haven't given them the basic tools that everybody in the private sector has had. And so, it's not like that anybody's bad a bad people, but you could get rid of 20% of this of the quote work by just bringing in the tools that are there. I mean, you could have 20% less people,
[00:50:03] then the people would have a more meaningful, more purposeful job, more productive. Yeah. All of those things. And so, what I thought was it can't be worse than it was in North Dakota. And then I got into the at least in the department of interior and uh we are we are further behind. I mean we're going to you know this is a the land of you know decommissioning main mainframes and then we could just you know take them
[00:50:24] straight to the Smithsonian to the 1980s exhibit. I had dinner with a couple CIOS CTOs that are that have now been put in the government and um the stories are incredible. Totally echo what you what you're saying. Secretary Bergam, thank you for this opportunity to join you here on this beautiful day. I really appreciate the work you're doing. It's fantastic to hear that there's someone in the administration with your
[00:50:44] perspective, your experience doing this work. And so I just want to say thank you. And David, I want to return that. I want to thank you and all your compatriots at Allin because uh you're you're really uh allowing an opportunity for America to have a dialogue that goes deeper than the sound bite. Yeah. And I I think that all of you may underestimate the impact that Allin has had. Uh I know that uh that it's a
[00:51:07] you're influencing policy. You're you're you know helping people understand the complexity and both the opportunities and the threats of big things that really matter to all Americans. And so and and thank you for being so well informed and thanks for coming all the way down here to Louisiana to share this beautiful day on the coast. Thanks. Thank you. I'm going all in.