[00:27:36] have a lot of it. Thorium is not hard to get. We have an incredible amount of thorium. Those are the two fuel sources. Why can't we move faster with nuclear? What's the hold back? And why is the US so different than China in being able to scale up nuclear? A big difference is again back to the regulatory environment. I mean the the regulatory environment on nuclear uh has been so burdensome uh in terms of adding to the
[00:28:01] cost and the time frame and bring it on that and then when that cost was put onto a utility and then utility felt they had to put that back on the rate on the on their on the uh the rate payers their consumer customers uh there was in some ways a revolt and it wasn't safety related. It was like oh you want nuclear but now my electricity is going to cost twice as much. I'm not for that. So we have to be able to get that regulatory
[00:28:22] regime down and allow them to go faster. And of course on the SMRs once that design gets approved we should be able to have essentially like a manufacturing where we've we've we regulate the design the design is proven and prove out. As long as the manufacturing plant is producing that same design then we don't have to do this stick built show up you know you work for a week the inspector shows up oh this is off by you know one
[00:28:47] millimeter you got to redo it. I mean some of that is where you end up with doubling of co I mean you can't I mean some of the projects that have just been completed you know that took you know close to two decades on nuclear and then had double the cost and double the time you know that's that's not economically sustainable. So part of it is we've got to streamline the process, but these smaller amounts, they can be daisy
[00:29:07] chained. They could be great solutions. And then the other piece which you love about having the small moducer is we can spend money on power generation as opposed to money on transmission because transmission is also it's really hard to build a transmission line in this country because whether it's a linear infrastructure which includes natural gas pipelines CO2 pipelines oil and gas pipelines or transmission lines those
[00:29:30] become the focal point for protests because if they have any nexus an 1100 mile long pipeline could have one mile that touches federal ground. That is where the protest is going to occur. So, going back to your deregulatory action, can you do that in the seat that you're in? Who can take that deregulatory action? Do you need Congress to get involved? I I've got a great partner, Chris Wright, uh, incredibly talented,
[00:29:56] arguably uh, the most qualified Secretary of Energy we've ever had leading that effort because the Department of Energy has got most of the responsibility related to nuclear because they also are in charge of our nuclear stockpile. I mean for the military I mean DOE has got direct defense responsibilities and and as part of that uh they we've also got the 15 national labs and there's been great work that's happening in Los Alamos and
[00:30:22] Scandia. I mean uh you know you go around the whole country and we've got an incredibly talented group of people and and research dollars have been flowing but we've got to get some of that commercialized and out to the public. So but again you think of it literally as a Manhattan project. These were the these were the places where we did the Manhattan project. when you think of Los Alamos and others. So, we've got to mobilize these government
[00:30:43] agencies to help us on the current the current crisis we're facing, which is this energy emergency. We should talk to Chris Wright. Um, yes, you should. And then what's your what's your point of view on the timeline for the SMRs? Do you think it's 2035, 2030 when you have that approved design and you stamp them out? Is it 2040 or is it still Well, the fun thing when we the fun thing when we meet with all of these uh people in the
[00:31:04] nuclear industry, if you were doing this 5 years ago, you'd have been talking to regulated utilities. Today you can talk to venture funded venture funded startups and there's at least 10 that are out there today uh that are chasing new designs. There's people that are changing chasing not just vision but fusion and so all of that is exciting. Uh and if you think about our think of us having an air base in Alaska I mean
[00:31:26] think of being able to daisy chain some SMRs there and not having to build transmission. I mean the applications for the military purposes and for other and then if you have distributed it's harder for the enemy to knock out your power source because it's not all sitting in one spot. Do you think America has a risk tolerance problem? My view is we've gotten so wealthy and comfortable and we have such prosperity
[00:31:48] in this nation just like what happened in Europe. You eventually say I don't want to take any risk anymore and everything gets regulated to the point that you don't want to have any damage or hurt or downside. Like this is the whole thing with self-driving cars. Elon just put out a tweet saying he's seeing one car crash every 5 million miles or something on self-driving versus 1 million miles when there's not
[00:32:10] self-driving on. So it's a safer technology, but the focal point is if it's new technology and it causes any harm or any loss, it's worse versus looking at the calculus of the whole. Have we lost that ability as a country? And how do we grade leadership to rethink a risk-taking America again? Well, I don't know if we've lost it or it's just the enumery of being selective about what industry or what form of transportation because on the automobile
[00:32:36] side again, we'll track this year between 38 and 40,000 deaths on highways in America. Half of those are because of impaired driving either from people texting or or uh you know impaired drug or alcohol use. And and apparently everybody's okay with that because you know we lose a 100red people a day and there's never a story about it. I mean more than 100 people a day, but you know if you lose 70 you lose 70 people in the
[00:33:01] first first airline crash in 12 years in America and we're still talking about it 3 months later because because that somehow that is news and and people dying on highways is not and and in a nuclear it's the same thing. Uh I I actually checked on this because of course we've had no n deaths from anything related to nuclear power in our country. Uh yeah, in the in since inception, but the the best I can find
[00:33:26] on the federal safety statistics is there's about 37 people that have died from getting angry at vending machines and then pounding on them and then they tip over and fall on them literally and they and they crush them. Where do you find that? Yeah, you just go go search online, but it's it's out there thing. But I mean it's like so so it's like if you're if you're afraid of nuclear, you know, then take a wide
[00:33:50] birth. If you see a vending machine, steer clear of it. And or the same thing. I mean, I when I was uh when I was, you know, campaigning for President Trump and I said I was pro- nuclear and someone said, "Well, would you know, oh, really? But would you live near one? Would you raise your family near one?" And I said, "Well, I would." And they said, "Well, how can you say that?" I said, "Well, I raised them on a farm in
[00:34:07] North Dakota and our farm was near a road." And they said, "What do you mean a road?" I said, "Well, there's it's more risky than a nuclear power plant." Yeah. It's like way more. I said when the kids were out, if they were out on a, you know, going to going to a dance at high school on Friday night, I was worried about them, not on the road, not not about anything else. Okay. So, the the the the crisis that we're in from
[00:34:26] energy is not the only crisis America faced. We're facing a a debt and deficit crisis um that's going to challenge this nation in ways we've never been challenged before. 38 trillion of debt, $6.75 trillion budget, $2 trillion deficit. The numbers are staggering. It's frightening. There's a lot of economic studies that show you can't tax more than 18% of GDP or else you lose GDP. We're at that point. You've talked a lot about
[00:34:52] America's balance sheet as a way to unlock opportunity to grow GDP and grow our way out of this deficit debt problem. Talk a little bit about what you mean when you say America's balance sheet and what does that entail. Well, first of all, I love David the way you're framing it. And I would just add, you know, that two trillion dollar deficit means that in the last year of the Biden administration, 2,000 billion
[00:35:16] 2,000 billion more was spent than came in. And and coming in, we have other ways to bring money in other than taxes. And how is that possible? Well, it's because of America's balance sheet. Our balance sheet isn't just the financial assets. It includes the fact that just within Interior alone, there's 500 million acres of surface land. within throw in US forest service add another 200 million that's like nearly a third
[00:35:39] of US land yes and then we have uh 700 million acres of subsurface sometimes connect continuous and some discontinuous but we own all these minerals that are underground uh then there's about uh you know between 2 and a half and three billion acres of offshore that contain critical minerals and oil and gas minerals all of that is under the federal purview if interior was a standalone company it would have the largest balance sheet in the world
[00:36:05] by so far. I mean, you know, Saudi A Ramco wouldn't even come close. And then you'd say, okay, well, if that's if you have this this, we all know about the $ 38 trillion in debt. It gets, you know, hammered all the time. It's used in campaign things. But I was uh, you know, even at the Hill and Valley conference this week, I without asking the audience, okay, how many, you know, how many know the 38 trillion? Everybody, how many of you
[00:36:29] know what our balance sheet on the asset side is? Well, nobody knows because none of the senators know because we haven't calculated, but we're working in the Trump administration to try to come up with that number. And in and one estimate this week is we think just on a just on public land alone, there may be 8 trillion dollars of coal resources. And I know coal is sometimes, you know, it's a dirty word. It is. But, you know,
[00:36:51] it's uh we need to also remember that if we're going to have steel in this country and we need and we all agree we have need to have a steel industry. We need to have for defense. We need to have it for advanced manufacturing. We also need to have a shipping industry that comes back to our country. You need steel for that. Well, guess what you make steel out of? Well, part of it you make it out of you need you need coke.
[00:37:09] And coke comes from a certain kind of metallurgical coal. So, if we kill the coal industry, you can't have a steel industry unless we're going to have somebody ship metallurgical coal to us. In the coal resources around our country, the coal is also filled up with the critical and rare earth minerals uh that we need to go in this battle with China. Particularly now with China just in weeks ago putting on export controls
[00:37:29] on a number of minerals that we need for doing things like you know batteries that we need for electric motors for whether it's cars or home drills or or you know rockets missiles. I mean the the the the magnets that are at risk now because we became so dependent on China. So when you take a look at the the this balance sheet you know we need it for defense, we need it for national security. But theore Roosevelt who was
[00:37:53] be instrumental in putting away these hundreds of millions of acres in the original intention that said this was there for the benefit and use of the American people. And it al he also said very explicitly that that conservation meant meant you know sustainable use not just preservation because we saw what happened you know following the uh the the extremism that that landed around the spotted owl which is oh we've got to
[00:38:20] stop not just the harvesting of certain old growth timber and it killed the timber industry in America and when we killed it back in the 1990s uh then and it has never come back. And now what's happening 30 years later because those timber companies that would get a lease from the federal government, they would have the responsibility for going in and thinning and cleaning and responsibly managing that and they would send a
[00:38:44] check to the federal government. We'd have revenue instead of revenue today, we have expense. We burn more board feet of lumber in this country every year right now than we are harvesting because because of the wildfire because of uncontrolled wildfires. And then the uncontrolled wildfires are some of our biggest emitters, you know, in terms of CO2. You burn a tree, it releases the carbon. So again, the folks that wanted
[00:39:06] to, you know, reduce emissions, save the planet, you know, help the wildlife, we're actually doing the opposite of that. So we have to get back in the business of of, you know, grazing our lands, managing our forest, developing our our our resources and our critical minerals, getting back. We have to mine again in this country. Mining can't be, you know, if we want to be a strong country, we've got to do that. Uh, and
[00:39:28] of course oil and gas. You do all of those things that I just named. All of those involve selling a lease to a private company. They send a check and then they develop the resource and then they send us a royalty. The little company that I just met with this morning out on the platform on the Gulf of America in its inception. This is a company with 450 people. They have sent 1.2 billion dollars to the US Treasury
[00:39:49] over the life of their company. You know, show me a tech company that's done that. I mean, impossible for a lease to access that resource. Well, the the lease and and they they lease it up front. So, they write a check up front to have the to have the opportunity to take the risk. They take all the risk. They build the platform. They hire the people. They do the seismic. They figure it out. And if they hit a dry hole, it's
[00:40:08] all on them. Taxpayer nothing. But if they score, then they pay us a royalty. And what do we use that for? We use it for, you know, we use it for paying down the deficit and the debt. We also use it for coastal restoration. You know, along this beautiful Gulf Coast, you do coastal restoration. With that, the dollars go back to the states. the largest funer of coastal restoration in this country is the oil and gas industry
[00:40:29] uh you know here in the Gulf. So again the it's you know if like I said if you if you've driven on an in on an interstate highway in your life or if you've gone to a public school you should send a thank you note to the the natural resource industries because they were helping to pay for that. But what's happened if I if there's a hundred trillion dollars on the balance sheet, just say that. And and now and you're a
[00:40:49] finance, tech, venture guy, you could say, "Okay, we'll we'll allow uh the federal government to be the worst. You guys can have a 1% return on your natural assets. That would be $1 trillion." Okay, last year, Interior brought in 22 billion. So, so we're off we're off by a factor of 50 from having bad performance on getting a return on investment for the American people. I guess you know the assets only count if
[00:41:14] you can access them, utilize them, monetize them. We all know from a finance perspective there's goodwill that could sit on an asset line and doesn't mean anything at the end of the day. If you can't monetize it, it's not worth much. So, how do you think about the target you're going after? Is it a trillion? And then when do you develop and deliver a plan to the American people that says, "Guys, here's our target. Here's when we're going to get
[00:41:37] there." Do you think about it that way? We don't have a target yet because we don't even know what the base unused resources. I mean, we're trying to get our hands around, you know, what what is our timber worth? What is our, you know, oil and gas? And that goes back to the core mission of the US Geologic Survey. Its original core mission was to map. So, when we say it's, you know, it's it's map, baby, map. uh because then
[00:41:57] that can tell you, you know, where you're supposed to mine, baby mine, where you're supposed to drill, baby drill. But getting back to the mapping and working with the private sector, who's outstripped, who's outstripped. I mean, ground penetrating radar, uh, is, you know, a new advancement, uh, that's, you know, more accurate than seismic and less intrusive. And we need to really understand what America's balance sheet
[00:42:16] is. And some of that's going to take some work for us to get out there and really survey it. And, and then when we have that, that's public domain. publish that information and that'll help the private sector steer where they should put their resources to help develop this. Let's talk about mining. The United States used to mine. You and I had a dinner a couple weeks ago. You gave me a statistic which I hadn't heard
[00:42:37] before, which is we only graduate 200 people in degrees in mining today. Why did we stop mining? Why did we stop developing our own natural resources and shift to a model where we're buying dependent and now have critical supply chain dependencies? What happened in the United States? Well, I think there was there was some, you know, our country was a powerful and great minor and it was when you think back to, you know,