[00:00:02] We're here on the Celsius Galway in Sabine Pass uh just outside of Bowmont, Texas with the Secretary of the Interior, Doug Bergam. The crew is giving us a tour. This is an amazing export facility, the largest in the United States, second largest in the world. We're going to talk with the secretary in a minute about American energy independence and the role that this company, this facility, and this process plays. So excited to have the
[00:00:25] conversation with the secretary. What' you think? Well, I he was fantastic, but to be on a brand new ship like this is pretty special. I mean, like brand spanking like this is the first cargo it's taking. This is like this is like not even out of the showroom. Brand new. Yeah. I mean, look at that. Those are spotless. Yeah, this was definitely coordinated for you. I have a suspicion. But it's beautiful. I think they coordinated for you. They
[00:00:59] heard you were coming, Doug. They were saying in 2008, this facility was basically bankrupt. Yes. And this has been a development project since about 2012 and it went from practically nothing to the largest LNG exporter in the world in 13 years. In 13 years. And prior to that, when it was originally built, because this is before the amazing miracle of the of the whole shale revolution in our country, right? without that this was being built as a
[00:01:27] LG import facility. That was the original thing. We're going to have to import LG to America. Now LG is the number two dollar export on the alltime list for the country. It's the second most highest dollar value we export. We went from from being like, oh, we're going to run out of oil and gas to today uh we're energy independent on a net basis and we're on our path towards becoming energy dominant. I'm going all
[00:01:54] in. All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. Welcome to the all-in interview here today with Secretary Doug Bergam, the 55th Secretary of the Interior of the
[00:02:17] United States of America. We are here in beautiful Sabine Pass in Louisiana today at the Shener LNG facility. It's been an amazing tour this afternoon. It's a little bit windy, but it's still a beautiful afternoon. Thanks for joining me today, Doug. David, it's great to be with you. Thank you for coming down and uh seeing this amazing facility. So, we just took a great tour here. Why were you here today? And what are we checking
[00:02:38] out? Well, I think President Trump, one of his core goals, if we talk about energy dominance, which is beyond energy independence, it's not just a a slogan. It's really about how do we have the power to power AI in America? How do we power the remanufacturing in America? And then how do we sell energy to our friends and allies so that they don't have to buy it from our adversaries. And what what we you and I had a chance to
[00:03:00] see today is the largest LG export facility in America, the second largest in the world. Yeah. I was struck. I didn't really realize how quickly this facility grew up just about a dozen years ago. There was nothing really going on here. And now it's the second largest export facility of methane in the world. And methane is seeing a a massive resurgence around the world because it has a lower carbon footprint.
[00:03:25] There's demand. It's transportable. So there's a lot of reasons why there's a massive growing market for for liqufied natural gas or methane. Absolutely. And part of the amazing energy transformation that I think is not fully appreciated by most Americans is when this plant began uh in the early 2000s, it was meant to be an LNG import facility. America was running out of oil and gas and they said, "Wait, we got to
[00:03:49] be ready to start importing it just to meet our needs." Well, along comes the shale gas revolution again driven by technology. That technology of horizontal drilling, that ability to, you know, fractionate rock uh and get oil and gas out of places that people thought was just impossible that we would ever be retrieving uh that those resources from those from those hard rock shale locations. And so then this thing after the financial crisis turned
[00:04:15] around and began its life as an export facility and now as you say the only one larger in the world is in the Middle East. So I I want to go back a little bit and how you ended up in the seat, how you ended up um not just being the secretary of the interior but you're also the chair of the National Energy Dominance Council. I really want to talk about the importance I talk about on the podcast a lot about the importance of
[00:04:37] growing energy production in this country. But you're a tech entrepreneur who is from North Dakota, became governor of the state, and I'd love for you to just do your highlights, how you ended up there, what you did with respect to energy, um, and also how that translated into a surplus of jobs and economic prosperity for that state. It's been quite a journey. uh you know starting out in a town of 300 people in
[00:05:00] North Dakota with all gravel streets and no computers uh to end up having an opportunity to uh to be part of a software startup you know grow that business take it public have a great run as a public company get acquired in an all stock deal by Microsoft stayed there for seven years uh you know helping grow Microsoft from 40,000 people to to 90,000 people and there was 2,000 of us at great plains when we got acquired
[00:05:25] there was 1,200 in Fargo 400 rest in North America, 400 rest of the world, we become a this improbable global software company uh coming from the from the great plains. And then when I left Microsoft to uh uh presumably spend more time with kids, retire uh that was an epic fail. Ended up in uh two more startups within six months. Uh was involved in three more software IPOs and dozens of other uh businesses and I mean
[00:05:51] software businesses. And then uh in 2016 at a time when we were having an energy collapse in prices uh there was an open seat for governor and I threw my hat in the ring and uh we were uh down at 6910 in the polls in January. The primary was in June. Uh Katherine was who became the first lady was like, "Oh, we've got a great life. Let's why would we why would we get into politics? Why would we get into that?" And I assured her that we
[00:06:18] had no chance of winning and she didn't have to ever worry about being first lady. but this would be fun for six months to create some competition. But we ended up winning that primary and and then went on uh got it was a good year for outsiders. So we took office the uh about in North Dakota you start middle of December. So about 36 days ahead of President Trump we were sworn in had four amazing years uh working with
[00:06:42] President Trump as a governor. There was a win behind our back and then second term uh we got reelected by the largest margin in the country of any race. But then that was I was serving as a governor under the Biden administration and in a state where we'd become we're rapidly becoming a very ris resourcerich state. Uh we had climbed to being the number two oil producer in the country. Uh we had you know tremendous coal
[00:07:05] resources, incredible agriculture resources and in ranching and the Biden administration really was having a war on on on whether it was timber grazing, oil and gas, coal, critical minerals. I mean anything that had to do with extraction uh there was a regulatory battle going on and and I and I would have to say that a part of me uh not just became frustrated I became very concerned about the future of the country and that led to you know jumping
[00:07:32] at the national level and saying hey we've got to have a policy uh because if we don't if we don't have energy security we're not going to have national security and that's what really uh drove the to sort of this us sitting here right now today. So, you ran for president. You ran for the Republican nomination against President Trump and others. And then, um, obviously, President Trump got that nomination. Did
[00:07:55] you keep in touch with him after that? And how did you kind of work with his staff and his office as he was moving his campaign forward? Well, we were we were in touch uh because we you know we knew each other as a governor would know a president, but I was never really running against President Trump. And I think the record shows that I was really running against these horrifically dangerous uh and uh you know unsound,
[00:08:17] unsafe uh policies of the Biden administration, which are almost, you know, too numerous to enumerate. When I left office last December 15th, just December 15th of of 2024, uh, as governor, I was involved in 30 lawsuits against the Biden administration. You know, many of them including against the agency the the agency that the bureaus that I'm now leading uh because the regulatory regime was such that it wasn't about regulating oil and gas. It
[00:08:42] was about eliminating oil and gas from America. and and and if there was some sort of false god around climate ideology that they were that was being chased, it was like, "Oh, if we stop the supply coming from the US, we're going to somehow save the planet." But there was no reduction of demand. The demand was just being filled by by, you know, Iran, Venezuela, Russia, and they and they were funding wars against us. So, I
[00:09:06] mean, I thought it was closest thing to insanity that I'd ever seen. And so when uh when we when we dropped out uh very quickly uh I was the first of any of the other candidates to endorse President Trump uh and uh and then spent last year campaigning for him. Yeah. And then there was, can I say this, some rumors that you might have been in the running for vice president, but you obviously stayed close with the the president and
[00:09:29] and his staff and found your way into this role. How did that process go for you? How did you end up in this role that you're Well, I it's a I love what I'm doing and I love the role. Uh because of course as a western uh western governor uh we have all the things that interior has as governor of North Dakota which is a jam-packed fun job. Uh you've got you're chairman of the land board and just being governor.
[00:09:51] Well then meant you know dealing with land and minerals and all the leasing and all the issues with the energy industry. You're also the uh head of the water commission. Uh interior has the bureau of reclamation which is the second largest hydroelect electric producer in the country and manages you know the miracle of irrigation that the Roosevelt came up with. We wouldn't have agriculture in Arizona or California
[00:10:10] without that. Uh and then Bureau of Indian Affairs is part of Interior. Uh and that's a uh something I had a lot of experience with and all the challenges that we face in terms of healthcare and education on the tribal areas. So across the whole realm of interior everything that I had in North Dakota is part of my job today except one thing uh and that's offshore oil production because uh North Dakota as you would know is the center of North
[00:10:36] America. So if you're afraid of sharks, you should move to North Dakota because it literally is the furthest place in North America from any ocean. So we had no offshore, but uh today earlier today, I had a chance to get on my first offshore platform and and uh and see uh the innovation and entrepreneurship there that's uh again now providing about 16% of the uh oil for the America. So I mean let's talk about the energy
[00:11:00] problem, the energy opportunity. Before we do, I think 50% of the potential audience of this conversation cue out and say this is evil. There's good and there's bad. This is bad. Exploitation of natural resources. Extraction of natural resources damages the planet, ruins the environment, puts carbon in the atmosphere, drives climate change. and they won't listen to any conversation about the pragmatism of energy security
[00:11:31] and the importance energy plays in prosperity. Taking people out of poverty, raising them up, raising living standards and giving access to things around the world that every individual wants, which is more prosperity. And one statistic I always quote is that if you go back 500 plus years, you can see and there's all these studies that have tried to understand energy production versus GDP, which translates to
[00:11:55] prosperity per capita. And there's a linear relationship. The more energy that's produced, the higher the GDP per capita. And that's what we see around the world in developing markets today. So I guess maybe you could just take a moment to talk to those folks. Share a little bit about your perspective of the relationship between taking care of the environment and the planet and the importance of energy demand and energy
[00:12:19] security before we get into the things that are going on. Well, I I think you're uh you're spot on. I mean, human flourishing depends on on everyone. And I think if you're talking about access for everyone, uh you just take a look. I mean, we have we could have as many as 800 million people on the planet uh you know, shy of a billion uh that don't have access to electricity and they they need more energy. Now, with AI coming,
[00:12:42] the demand for power is going to go up. Uh the demand for advanced manufacturing. So, we're not in any kind of energy transition. We're in an area where we need energy addition. And if we want human flourishing, if we want to reach our planet's fullest potential and if we want to take care of our environment, which you we can do all these things at the same time, that even that requires uh requires energy. I
[00:13:03] mean, if you if you if you're worried about, you know, water sources, well, desalination, which we can do, requires a lot of energy. Uh you know, transportation of goods requires energy. Uh so whether you know it's the the clothes on your back, the food on your table, the the transportation drive, there's an energy component to all of that. and electrifying stuff doesn't change. It just changes the source of
[00:13:23] the we still need to create the electricity. So I feel like that if anybody is concerned about the environment, they should want to have it every ounce of a liquid fuel and every electron produced in the United States because if you compare us to any other any other country, we produce it cleaner, safer, smarter, and healthier than anyone else. that I learned in North Dakota over those eight years as governor where we were always on the top
[00:13:46] of the list of, you know, cleanest water, cleanest air, best soil health, all of these things that we were able to achieve. And we were going up the charts in terms of energy production. These things go hand in hand. They're not it's not either or. It's it's a plus when you can do both. And we were just talking to this crew on board uh the ship we just visited. They're on their way to Taiwan and they go to Japan. And so if we can
[00:14:08] produce liquid methane in this country with a lower carbon footprint, then that methane might be produced elsewhere, which is the case. We use we have cleaner methods for production. And that demand exists regardless of whether or not the United States produces it. It's important that the United States take advantage of the opportunity to produce it cleaner, more safely, and with a lower footprint and and build economic
[00:14:29] prosperity for us as exporters. Yes, absolutely. I mean, so the the the net formula that you've just described is the more energy that's produced in the United States, the better it is for the globe and the better it is for American prosperity. And I would say it's not just for the globe environmentally. It's also for for peace. It's not just prosperity at home, but literally the two the two proxy wars that we've been
[00:14:49] involved in with Russia after Russia invaded Ukraine and after uh you know Iran funding 24 different terror groups, they were funding those wars against us with their oil and gas sales. And so if if we can replace their customers with US sources, they have less revenue. They have less funding literally to fund terrorism. So it is prosperity at home, peace abroad, it's nothing short of that. So let's talk about the energy
[00:15:12] demand equation. The US is forecasted to increase its electricity production capacity from 1 to 2 terowatt by 2040 15 years from now. During that same period of time, China is going to go from 3 to 8 terowatt. And that China forecast, by the way, excludes any of the Gen 4 nuclear reactors, the new hydroelectric facilities, and the new thorium, or if that ever scales that they're considering rolling out in addition to
[00:15:36] what they've already planned to roll out. So, in the next 15 years, China is adding five Americas. Yes. In electricity, production capacity. And if everything gets automated, factories are automated, AI becomes the great accelerant of the global economy, China is hugely advantaged relative to where we sit today. What do we need to do about it? Well, this is the if you were to ask me what's the thing that keeps me
[00:15:59] awake at night. Uh this is this is the issue and it's so thrilling and refreshing that you understand the scale, the magnitude and the importance of this uh the AI arms race which is really driven by access to electricity. And China last year brought on 94 and a half gigawatts of coal powered electricity. One gawatt is Denver. So they brought on 94 Denvers just last year. That's more than all we have today for all of California and all of New