[00:00:00] All right, everybody, welcome back to the number one podcast in the world, your favorite podcast, the All-In podcast. We got a huge, huge docket with me again, the core four. Chamath, Freeberg, Sachs, and your boy J Cal. Topic one. Topic one. Let's get right to it. No small talk, boys. Dario has spoken. Apparently, he listens to the All-In podcast, and he was compelled to respond to Gavin Baker's little discussion last week that
[00:00:28] many people inside, or some people, allegedly, maybe inside of Anthropic believe, quote, that they will be the only private company in the world at some point. Some folks from Anthropic, Sholto Douglas, fired back, completely false. Whoever told Gavin this is lying. And Dario decided he would come out of hiding, and he entered the chat with an epic two-part essay on regulation. Sachs, he said, quote, "I know the
[00:00:56] Silicon Valley shorthand where regulation equals regulatory capture equals concentration of power, but I've always found this to be an overly simplified picture." On messaging, he said, quote, "I do not agree my messaging has been disproportionately negative. It has been about equally balanced between risks and benefits." Took a little responsibility, quote, "By far the most accurate criticism of AI companies, including
[00:01:19] Anthropic, is that we haven't yet delivered on our big promises to benefit the world. That is totally on us." Most quoted line, "The thing that will work is actually curing cancer, not glitzy marketing." Questions. Sachs, uh, you've been talking about Anthropic for a year and a half. He never responded. Gavin comes out, and he suddenly, uh, is very talkative and responds. What do you take from the fact that he never
[00:01:45] responded to you, and then he responded to Gavin, and then we'll get into the details. Does he not want to spar with you? >> he did respond to me. I mean, I I want to center myself, but the reality is he did not respond to what Gavin said. He easily could have said that what Gavin said he said is untrue, like Shalto did. He did not weigh in on that issue. Instead, he really weighed in on the regulatory capture issue. So, that's the thing that
[00:02:11] I think drew him out here is I think he is a little bit irked by the fact that we keep accusing him of regulatory capture. And this is something I've been saying since last year that they were engaged in a sophisticated regulatory capture scheme based on fearmongering. And those are the points he's really responding to. And I think the thing that he doesn't like about it is that he feels like it impugns his motives, that
[00:02:33] he's not pure in pursuing all these regulations for the right for the right reasons. And my response to that is look, there's no question that Anthropic has been extremely aggressive about seeking to implement its preferred regulatory frameworks at both the state and federal level. That is regulatory capture. Now, look, I think that Dario may be sincere in his beliefs. I'm not saying he's doing this for pecuniary
[00:02:58] reasons. Nonetheless, he is seeking to capture the machinery of the state on behalf of his political agenda. It's just there's not much to debate there, I don't think. There's a few other things to say about this. So, let me go to point number two first. He says that he's not responsible for the negativity around AI, that he's been balanced in his portrayal of AI. Oh, really? Do you you expect us to have amnesia
[00:03:26] about the fact that just about a year and a half ago, you said very specifically that within 1 to 5 years 50% of entry-level knowledge workers would lose their jobs. And this was not just some sort of idle speculation on a podcast. This was something that they engineered and amplified into a full-fledged media campaign. You may recall that President Obama even retweeted this. And many other Democratic Party officials did the same
[00:03:51] thing. Moreover, this pattern repeats itself with the whole Anthropic blackmail study. Remember, he's got a team at the company, they're supposedly studying alignment. They create this highly contrived study where they prompt this model over 200 times until they finally get the headline-grabbing result that they wanted. And again, my point here is that this is not just someone dishing on a podcast about the alignment
[00:04:15] risk of AI. This is them actually creating a study, engineering that study, and then pumping it to create the headlines they wanted. And Dario and his sister, who's the president of the company, and other executives went on 60 Minutes and breathlessly pumped this thing. And since that study has come out, a lot of people have looked at it and said, "Look, this thing is highly contrived." Including the UK AI Safety
[00:04:37] Institute, basically said that this thing was created under highly pressurized conditions, and they engineered the result. So, these guys have created campaigns to make people fear AI. Why is the public so afraid of AI? They think it's going to take their jobs, they think it's going to become the Terminator. It's exactly the fears that Anthropic has put in the media bloodstream. And no company, and you'd have to say,
[00:05:03] therefore, no founder CEO has done more to promote these fears and pump these fears and amplify these fears than Dario has. And the fact that he can't see that either makes him I'd say disingenuous or delusional. >> I'm going with the latter. >> So, that that's point number one. And I really think that almost everybody who read that, who's been paying attention, felt the same way. It's like, "Dario, you really have
[00:05:27] a blind spot with respect to your own behavior." >> By the way, can we can we talk about that one for a second or no? >> Yeah, let's do it. Yeah. >> Just to build on what you're saying, the issue that we have right now is actually pretty problematic. If I had to take three different vectors of actions and now put them together, you've had a very disjointed, dis- organized, and frankly, pearl-clutching, disingenuous
[00:05:51] AI doom narrative. And it's actually seeded and now it's growing. And as a result, what's happening? I was really shocked when I saw Governor Abbott of Texas put down this executive order around Texas data centers and limiting its growth. Josh Shapiro in Pennsylvania just did the same thing. Axios reported that the GOP party sent out a memo to the executives at the various AI companies essentially saying, "Hey, stop
[00:06:24] rage baiting people because we're about to lose this critical GOP Senate race in Ohio largely around this issue." So, you have doomerism and then you now have mainstream political pushback from both sides of the aisle, which I think is extremely dangerous. And then the third leg of the stool is rising yields. By the way, the Treasury Department just doubled its bond buying. If you put all of these things together,
[00:06:55] as a just a casual observer, what I would say is we have made some really stupid unforced errors in the United States. And the coda to all of this is if you put all of these things together, rising yields constrains the money supply in terms of how people want to invest in risk seeking assets because the risk free rate just keeps going up. That causes people to be less likely to invest in all the data centers. Data
[00:07:20] centers themselves are being shut down. Where does that leave frontier model companies? They're the most at risk. Why? Because they're not investment grade. They're in the worst position in terms of their balance sheets. They're not in a position to then get access to the compute they need to be successful. So, even as you grow, you're actually making your problem worse in the sense that you need more and more capacity to
[00:07:43] sustain that growth that you can't fund because all the negativity has turned people against you. So, all roads lead to a big question mark and a and a head-scratching moment for me where I'm like, "How did we end up in this situation?" But, whether it was accidental or whether it was well-intentioned risk management, whatever it was, we are now in a very precarious situation that we could have frankly avoided.
[00:08:07] >> Totally agree. Freebert, your thoughts on this anti-data center movement or on Dario's going direct and writing the double missive. Do you think he's sincere, delusional, some combination? >> Why don't we steel man it? Yeah. And if we put ourselves in the shoes of a frontier lab leader and the leader is seeing capabilities of models that perhaps we don't see because we're working day-to-day in enterprise settings
[00:08:38] [clears throat] making stuff doing things in a benign, non-nefarious way. And they're sitting there and they're pressure testing models and they figure out, "Hey, there's ways you can jailbreak models to get them to do things that they're not supposed to do. And then you can use them to do things like design bio weapons, make viruses, make infectious diseases that don't exist today. You could use them to design cyber
[00:09:07] weapons to get them to go and do things online like break into bank accounts and take people's money and all these sorts of things. And you can prompt them to do things that could broadly influence society by creating fake media, fake videos, fake images, propagate them through social media, hack the algorithms. I mean, X's algorithm is public, so theoretically an agent could read it, copy it, understand it, and figure out a way to manipulate the
[00:09:36] broad public. And so you realize that as you're building these tools where there's a lot of benign positive world-leading progressive kind of applications, you see all the bad stuff that could happen with it. And you can keep trying to build systems and keep trying to build ways to stop it from doing that. You can build all your own code that reviews every prompt that comes in, that reviews every API call. And yet somehow a network of agents can
[00:10:01] be used to do things. And they can start to do things that we don't want them to do. And so let's assume that you're sitting there and you're the executive of the company building this great technology. You believe fully in its capabilities and its benefits to society, its benefits to the economy. But you can't get a grip on how to keep it under control and how to stop social engineering, cyber weapons, and cyber
[00:10:23] weapons. What do you do differently? >> Okay. Okay. So you're bringing up it's an exceptional going down an exceptional path. I love this. There is one thing that you must do. If you believe that this is true, to further steal my thunder. You cannot obfuscate the thinking tokens of a model then. What do I mean? If you just compare open-source models versus the closed frontier models. There is no way for us to understand
[00:10:55] what the thinking tokens are. Meaning you give it a prompt, you get back something, but all of the stuff in the middle is obfuscated. Quad obfuscates it. Okay? So do the open AI models. And I would say if I was really afraid, the first thing I would do is try to find a way to unobfuscate these thinking tokens so that you could have a third party actually legitimize what you're saying. Because what's interesting to me is I
[00:11:22] haven't seen the same doomerism from any open-source model company, including Nvidia. And the thing with the open-source models is you can actually see it thinking. So, you can see its misalignment in real time. And so, instead, we have to basically agree to their interpretation of tokens that we can't see, that only they can see, that they can interpret how they want. And without judging whether it's right or wrong, I would say
[00:11:51] give them the benefit of the doubt that they're trying to do the right thing. Make the bloody thing available to other people then. Let somebody else with some amount of judgment as well sit in the room and steel man it with you. >> So then, let me make this point. So, Sachs, there was this argument that Demis put out for a FINRA-style regulatory system, where industry participants that understand technology,
[00:12:11] move quickly, and are aligned with commercialization actively review each other's systems and each other's models via an industry consortium that hires and assigns scientists to work on this stuff, and they're just doing it, versus having it be owned and managed by the government and create some regulatory capture scheme. But then, this week, you were pretty against the FINRA system in your tweets. You seemed to be supportive of it the
[00:12:36] first time around when Demis originally published it. It seems to me that the proposal from Demis that Dario signed up to, Sam signed up to, Elon all signed up to, you're now against, but that could be a solution to, if there is genuine concern here, given Chamath's points. That the industry can can can kind of police each other. >> Let me let me clarify that. I think designing a new regulatory agency for AI that's designed after FINRA, which is a
[00:13:03] pretty sleepy regulatory agency that writes rules for stock brokers in a fairly mature industry that's not dynamic at all, is a horrible idea. And by the way, FINRA is widely perceived as just protecting incumbents. And talk to any startup founders had to deal with them, they view FINRA as existing to protect the big banks from disruption. It's It's just not a good model to base regulation after. So, now Demis, hold on.
[00:13:31] >> the NFA, the National Futures Association, which is also one of these self-regulatory organizations in the financial markets, is a better alternative cuz that's a pretty dynamic market. >> so now what you're saying is very interesting, which is you mentioned the term self-regulatory organization or SRO, and there's many different models. And one of them may work, and that's been my point. The one I think is the most appropriate for this
[00:13:56] circumstance would be something like the MPAA, which does not report to the government at all, and was formulated by the motion picture industry in response to the Hays Code. And what the government said is, "Get your act together, guys, or we're going to have to do it for you." And and what the MPAA did then was promote standards that then forestalled more intrusive, heavy-handed government action. So, that is basically
[00:14:19] the model that I said I could get behind. But is that the model that Dario supports? No. Dario, and I think Demis, wants a FINRA, which is basically this rule-making regulatory agency that would not only promulgate standards, but also do pre-release model testing. Okay? And it would then report into the government and then officially be enshrined in law. And the reason why everyone says, "Well, Elon's behind it."
[00:14:45] I've talked to Elon about this. Elon does not support a FINRA for AI. What he could get behind is an MPAA for AI. And that's my point is Demis wrote something >> what I've been saying on this podcast, Zach, since the beginning. I have been saying MPAA self-regulate. >> I get it, but look, here's my point. Demis wrote something very high-level. And so, when you say something like, "Well, everyone supports Demis's idea."
[00:15:09] There's many versions of Demis's idea. Some of them would be okay, and some of them are bad. And what I'm saying is if it's a FINRA model, that will not work. >> Having spoken to Demis at length about this, I think that the the general framework is SRO in the right structure. However, FINRA is often used as the example of an SRO simply because it is the most well-known SRO. And but you are correct. I think that
[00:15:35] there's a mechanism by which this thing needs to operate that is distinct from any other SRO. But the idea being the industry gets together and to Chamath's point, they get to look at each other's models, they get to police it, they get to have independence, but they don't get to be controlled by government. And that >> Well, here's what I think is important. And and just to be clear, this FINRA for AI AI idea, Dario's behind the
[00:15:56] demonstration of that. >> an SRO for AI. SRO. >> It's not an SRO because it's not self-regulating. It's a regulatory organization and the S part is a total fig leaf designed to hide the fact that this is a new regulatory agency that reports to the government that does pre-release testing and approval of models. I call it a DMV for AI because I think what's going to happen is all these models are going to get lined up
[00:16:17] in a queue waiting to get their test done and then released and it's going to slow us down horribly. Have you ever been to the DMV in Arizona? >> It's a terrible idea and it's just a repackaging of what Dario has always wanted, which is an FDA for AI. Now he's saying it's an FAA for AI. You know how long the FAA and the FDA take to approve new products? Years. Years. >> Yeah. Yeah, this is China's China's advantage. Yeah, exactly.
[00:16:42] >> China's going to win if we do this and and it will become pure regulatory capture. >> You should look at China's rocket that they landed yesterday. You know it's completely steel and there's a a good analysis that was done on how quickly they were able to do it from the last time they had an explosion of this, then they got full steel done and Elon's still waiting for FAA approval on his steel Starship. You could actually watch
[00:17:04] it playing out in China where their regulatory agencies are allowing them to move much more quickly and as a result, they're starting to gain real traction in the space race. And then separately, a lot of biotech has moved offshore from the US for the same reason that you're pointing out, which is the FDA approval cycle is so long and the stages slow people down so much. And China's completely revamped their rules for