[00:15:09] There's many versions of Demis's idea. Some of them would be okay, and some of them are bad. And what I'm saying is if it's a FINRA model, that will not work. >> Having spoken to Demis at length about this, I think that the the general framework is SRO in the right structure. However, FINRA is often used as the example of an SRO simply because it is the most well-known SRO. And but you are correct. I think that
[00:15:35] there's a mechanism by which this thing needs to operate that is distinct from any other SRO. But the idea being the industry gets together and to Chamath's point, they get to look at each other's models, they get to police it, they get to have independence, but they don't get to be controlled by government. And that >> Well, here's what I think is important. And and just to be clear, this FINRA for AI AI idea, Dario's behind the
[00:15:56] demonstration of that. >> an SRO for AI. SRO. >> It's not an SRO because it's not self-regulating. It's a regulatory organization and the S part is a total fig leaf designed to hide the fact that this is a new regulatory agency that reports to the government that does pre-release testing and approval of models. I call it a DMV for AI because I think what's going to happen is all these models are going to get lined up
[00:16:17] in a queue waiting to get their test done and then released and it's going to slow us down horribly. Have you ever been to the DMV in Arizona? >> It's a terrible idea and it's just a repackaging of what Dario has always wanted, which is an FDA for AI. Now he's saying it's an FAA for AI. You know how long the FAA and the FDA take to approve new products? Years. Years. >> Yeah. Yeah, this is China's China's advantage. Yeah, exactly.
[00:16:42] >> China's going to win if we do this and and it will become pure regulatory capture. >> You should look at China's rocket that they landed yesterday. You know it's completely steel and there's a a good analysis that was done on how quickly they were able to do it from the last time they had an explosion of this, then they got full steel done and Elon's still waiting for FAA approval on his steel Starship. You could actually watch
[00:17:04] it playing out in China where their regulatory agencies are allowing them to move much more quickly and as a result, they're starting to gain real traction in the space race. And then separately, a lot of biotech has moved offshore from the US for the same reason that you're pointing out, which is the FDA approval cycle is so long and the stages slow people down so much. And China's completely revamped their rules for
[00:17:27] getting to clinicals and getting to phase three and then completing that all the biotech investing in the world is now moving to China. >> The fact that Dario could want and has called for, including in very recent blogs, a regulatory apparatus modeled after the FAA and that that is the right model for AI in my view is completely discrediting. And yes, we will get smoked by China because they will not subject all their companies to these
[00:17:53] constraints. Now, >> Okay, so let's play this out. Let's play this out. Yeah. >> go back to your steel man for a second. >> Yeah, yeah. >> Just because I believe that we should not have a DMV for AI does not mean that I'm against AI safety. So let's talk about some of the things that can be done. So first of all, I think it's good that these frontier labs take safety seriously. Sam just came out with a post, I believe, yesterday saying that
[00:18:16] actually they're going to slow down the release of some of their frontier models because they felt that their safety stack was not keeping up with the capability. Okay, that's responsible. By the way, do you know why I think they're doing that? Because they have huge and ample liability to take responsible steps because if they don't, they're going to be subjected to all sorts of product liability lawsuits. Look at what's
[00:18:38] happening to Meta right now. They're getting sued because supposedly their product led to social media addiction and they're getting sued for over a trillion dollars and this comes on the heel of them losing a $6 million jury trial in Los Angeles where a plaintiff sued them for creating her body image issues. So, we are seeing massive product liability lawsuits against big tech companies like Meta and Google and if OpenAI and Anthropic are
[00:19:04] smart, and I think they are, they do not want to be next. So, these companies have ample reasons for liability protection not to just race out their product, okay? Safety is part of what they have to get right. Now, how should the industry coordinate with each other? There are tried and true ways of doing this. Companies in the industry publish papers, they publish technical papers, they publish blogs. These are good ways
[00:19:29] of sharing best practices. They attend symposia and conferences, and they present at these things. They do request for comments as part of open standard setting exercises. There are ways of the industry collaborating on safety in very productive ways. But, what is the common denominator of everything I just said? They are all open. They are not in secret, and that makes those judgments contestable to the point that Jamath made earlier about we
[00:19:56] need to see the thinking behind this. And what I'm against is these companies meeting in secret, whether it's part of some sort of like FINRA or otherwise, to set standards that are not transparent, that are uncontestable. And you know what's going to come out of that? Regulatory capture and anti-competitive behavior. So, there are ways of doing this that will protect the public that are open and transparent. That is what
[00:20:20] we should lead towards. >> not You will not see it happen. And I'll tell you why. Just again, the technical details matter. If all of a sudden competitor A, B, and C could see every single trace and span that your model generated as an artifact of going from input tokens to output tokens, you're essentially giving away uh a lot of your recipe. And I just don't think that if Anthropic isn't willing, even if I'm an API
[00:20:49] customer, to share my thinking tokens from my company with me, they're sure as not going to share it with OpenAI and anybody else in a room. Okay? >> Okay, let's And let's just do one more steel man. So, let's say that Dario's successful. And Jaq, I'll ask you the question cuz I've taken over as moderator of this segment. >> Yeah, no, I mean I No, Sachs has This is Sachs's wheelhouse. I wanted to hear your whole No, no, to be honest, this is
[00:21:16] Sachs's wheelhouse. I wanted to hear your whole position on it. >> Let's just say that Dario's successful. There's some regulatory scheme that's created that does in fact, to Sachs's point, slow down the industry, slow down model development. And China's frontier labs make significant progress and they start to leap ahead and they get this RSI, this recursive self-improvement going and their models become the best in the
[00:21:37] world and they only get better and better and better. we'll start with you. >> Okay. >> we'll go around the horn. >> Okay, world's greatest moderator. >> What is the implication for the American worker, for the American business and for the American consumer in a world where China just has the best AI and they have all the data center? What happens in our world? What is the consequence cuz everyone keeps hearing, "Oh, China will
[00:21:58] win. China will win." Who cares? What does that actually mean? >> I don't think China is going to win. I think it'll be, you know, there's not going to be one person who who takes the whole prize. I think it's going to be incremental improvement. So, I don't think that that matters. I you know, I've been thinking about why this backlash is happening actually for the data centers and it was kind of shocking to see Abbott come out and
[00:22:21] Shapiro come out because those two people were the most pro data centers, right? And if you kind of double click on it, they just want to make sure you're not tapping into the grid and you know, the water concern which we've talked about here is not too serious, but I think it was very performative and I think you and I were talking about this on the back channel is they both are doing this because their constituents, the people who vote for
[00:22:45] them, really care about these data centers and they want to stop them. So, then you have to work backwards. Why do they want to stop data centers so much? Why Why are Americans so opposed to AI right now? And the perception of AI was already pre-baked with science fiction, of course. So, we we needed to work to get past the Skynet Terminator vision. But, Dario told everybody, "We're going to lose our jobs." Elon
[00:23:10] said, "You're not going to have to work." It was a more world positive view, but he did say that. Sam Altman did, you know, studies on um universal basic income, and he told everybody, "You're not going to have to work in a UBI." Saying that kind of stuff to people who have to work for a living and who have no savings and who are watching, you know, in administration after administration not be able to tame inflation, whether they're Democrats or
[00:23:34] Republicans, and then watching the minimum wage just stay the way it is and barely move while the stock market hits records, and then all of us all of us being tech executives get super rich, and you wonder why people now are embracing socialism and why you have Abbott and Shapiro saying, "You know what? I And and and Ro Khanna, worst of all, saying, 'I have to be anti-capitalistic. I have to be a decel. I have to
[00:23:59] decelerate.'" It's because, you know, they were supposed to see some relief, and they haven't. And then, what do people do who do not feel they have any power? They look to find power. And if you look at what's happened, they are sharpening the guillotines. And I you know, that metaphor should wake people up, whether it's, you know, the United Healthcare CEO getting killed or people firebombing Sam Altman's house.
[00:24:24] We need to wake up and look at why are people so upset. It's because they can't survive. They're having a hard time with the affordability, with their wages. And what two things can they do? They can vote for socialists, and they can actually stop data centers. And that's what this is about. Nobody No No regular rank and file American cares about AI safety. That's not the discussion for them. The discussion for them is, "Why
[00:24:48] am I not getting rich and everybody else is?" >> tune your argument by 1 degree. I I really think you're onto something, but the 1 degree shift is I don't think they think about it entirely that way. I actually think they think about it as if I think about who has won over the last decade this generation of tech oligarchs who have won are pretty displeasing. They're not aspirational and they're not the people that one would look up to. They're not
[00:25:14] Steve Jobs by any stretch of the imagination. And now they look at this other next generation and they're like, wait, we're going to go from billionaire, decabillionaire, centibillionaire to now trillionaire and it's those guys? Those guys are even worse than the last crop. That's exactly what's happening and so I don't think it's as specific as what you're saying Jason. I think it's vibes and the vibes are terrible and they're
[00:25:36] looking around they're like if we can just slow this down maybe another batch of people will show up and they will actually mean to do the right thing and will make me at least feel better and I won't be so begrudgingly hating the fact that you are about to make a trillion dollars. It is precisely that sensation. And the folks that are at the front of the show on this are not trustworthy. That's what it is. >> Zack, let me ask you my question and I
[00:26:00] just I need I need to hear someone answer this question. >> Okay, but I'll answer your question. I'd like to >> Yeah, so my question again, if there's a regulatory slowdown with AI development in the US and China races ahead what are the implications for American business for American consumers? >> They will win. How does this actually affect They will win. >> Look, there are big What does that mean? What does that mean? Help people
[00:26:21] understand. So like if I'm sitting at home >> Okay, imagine this. Okay, let me give you a like a counterfactual. Imagine if China had won the internet. Imagine if all the major internet companies were Chinese right now. >> I need you to I need you to imagine for me. Tell me what what So give me a scenario of what this means. >> imagine that instead of I I I know people don't like big tech, but imagine if Google and Microsoft and Meta and all
[00:26:45] these companies were actually it was Baidu and Alibaba and Tencent and all the rest of them instead. I mean, obviously that would be way worse the United States. Our economy would not be as vibrant. It would not be as cutting edge and all that wealth would have gone into China. They're also military or you know, dual use applications of this technology, especially with AI, the algorithms power all sorts of weapons,
[00:27:10] drones, things like that. So we'll be behind them. I mean, look, America is not going to be the number one country in the world economically and militarily if we lose AI. It's just that simple. >> Chamath, do you agree? Like what's your view of the world, the US, business, consumer, individual, in a world where China has won quote in AI? >> I don't know what you mean by won. What do you mean by won? >> I don't know what it means.
[00:27:34] >> Okay, so I'm what I'm trying to get to is the implication of the implications of regulatory slowdown. So if we do slow down AI, what are the implications for people? How do the people understand tangibly what that means? >> Yeah, unless we actually go and ban, and I don't even know how one would implement a ban, so I think it's just a worthless exercise. Ban open source, I think we're going to be just fine. I think the consumer is
[00:27:59] going to win. I think American companies will win. I think the American economy will win. And the reason why it will win is that what we are finding, I'll give you an example of a really interesting insight. And this is about closed versus open, okay? Three years ago, all there ever were were models, yeah? And you would look at some benchmark and there would be a score free bird and you would say, "Wow, the one with the higher score is
[00:28:25] better." And then in the last few years, what's emerged is what's called a harness, right? And a harness just wraps the model, right? Like Codex or Claude Code or Hermes or OpenClaw, these are harnesses. You know what the interesting thing about open source versus closed source models? When you take a closed source model, it does really well on a benchmark. When you wrap it in its own harness, it decays in capability. When
[00:28:53] you take an open-source model and you use any other open-source model, it improves in capability. What is that trying to tell you? What I think we are finding out, and this data is just going to be a tsunami over the next year, is there are all kinds of ways of using open-source technologies that are meaningfully more performant and dramatically cheaper than the closed-source alternative. Unless America stops us, us being
[00:29:20] consumers, business owners, from using the cheapest, fastest, best thing, unless they stop us from doing that, we will win. What we are debating at this point is which private American company will win or lose. I go back to the previous argument. I don't think Americans care that much whether any of these closed-source companies win or lose. And I think you're seeing that in the policy. So, Friedberg, my explicit
[00:29:44] answer to you is as long as we don't do some draconian thing like trying to stop open-source, the American consumer will win. >> got bad news for you, Chamath. An open-source ban is coming. They're not going to call it that. You know what they're going to say? They're going to say that we simply have to apply the same standards to open models that we apply to closed. Okay, here here's how they do it step by step. Let me explain
[00:30:04] how regulatory capture actually works. So, first of all, you got to get this regulatory apparatus, okay? Dario wants an FDA for AI, but he doesn't have enough political support for that, so instead, they do this Trojan horse of a Finra for AI. They call it self-regulating. It's not really, but anyway, that gets them off the ground. Now they've created the standard-setting organization. Now they've got pre-release model testing. Then the
[00:30:28] pressure grows to codify that in law, so that happens next. And then what they do is they say, "Look, all these standards need to apply equally to all models." But here's the problem with that. Open models and closed models, as you know, are technologically different. Go back to Dario's Senate testimony in I think it was 2023 where he said that open models, if sufficiently advanced, are dangerous. And why are
[00:30:51] they dangerous? Because they cannot be centrally monitored and controlled and rolled back and withdrawn hold on like like a closed service like the one he hosts. Okay. >> I understand David, but you know >> hold on let me just finish the point. Please let me just finish the point then you can >> Yeah. >> you can respond. Dario basically says that open models are dangerous because of these characteristics they have and