[00:00:00] Secretary Bessant, welcome back to All-In. We appreciate you taking the time to catch up with us and provide this first year in review. We're excited to have you here and hear how things are going and what's ahead regarding the fiscal condition of the US government, the economic condition of the US economy, including how things are going for Wall Street and Main Street. And finally, we'd like to broadly discuss
[00:00:25] some of the administration's policies, decisions, and how they're playing out or will play out from your point of view. I'll start us off and maybe to catch up on our last conversation. One of the things that I've cared deeply about and which you shared an objective around is getting the budget deficit below 3% of GDP. I'd love to hear uh from your point of view how that's going and how things are looking for fiscal
[00:00:51] year 26. the actions that have been taken and what you think's ahead for that target. >> Good to be with you. Happy to review the year, talk about next year. Uh there's a lot going on. I would c categorize 2025. We had some important victories, [clears throat] some important policy announcements, uh some important movement, but I as I've described it, 2025 was setting the table. And I especially on the economy, I think the
[00:01:17] the feast and the banquet's going to be in 2026. To start with the budget deficit, we didn't get much credit because it came out during the shutdown. The the US fiscal year is on September 30th. We had a slight fiscal contraction for the year. Wasn't much, but much better than the 2.0 trillion that was estimated. We came down from about 1.8 trillion to 1.78. So, a a contraction nonetheless for the calendar year. We're making great
[00:01:52] progress. And just to put it in context, Biden administration, they blew things out try trying to get Vice President Harris elected in the fourth quarter. So last year 2024 40% of the government spending occurred in the fourth quarter as they had the un uh successful or their unsuccessful attempt to convince voters that they uh weren't in a world of hurt. I forecast that we will have approximately a 200 to 300 billion
[00:02:27] fiscal contraction uh for the calendar year which is between 7 1% of GDP. We're going to end the year with nominal growth close to 6%. So we will be bringing down the deficit to GDP. I believe it peaked 6.8% 8% for the calendar year previous year and we're going to be in the mid-5s. So, it's a very good start on an important journey and I've said that I would by the time President Trump leaves office that we
[00:03:01] would like to uh have something with a three in front of it which will stabilize the deficit to GDP which is the important number and enable us to start paying down debt. Scott, it seems like the tariffs have had an enormously positive impact. It's given you a lot of tools in the toolbox to work with. Why do you think so many people got it wrong? A lot of people, I'm sure, that you've known and worked with in your prior life as a hedge fund
[00:03:31] manager. What did they get wrong? What did they miss that you were able to see? >> Well, I I a couple of things. I I think people didn't have an open mind. Uh they became the Trump tariffs which immediately a large cohort. Uh whether it was government officials, industry people, the general population because President Trump wanted to do it, it must be bad. I I said the other day, President Trump cured cancer but it
[00:04:01] caused dandruff. Then people would say, well, you know, President Trump has caused a dandruff epidemic. [laughter] And um look that there's a lot of orthodoxy that hasn't worked. If we look back early early 2000s letting China into the global trading system that they would become more like us and there was a point and I'm somewhat sympathetic to the people who believe that but by 2013 when Xiinping came in and great writers
[00:04:33] like Elizabeth economy who had been of that view reversed and said he's a different kind of cat. It's no longer going to be Chinese policies with capitalist tendencies. It's just going to go back to, you know, hard communism, Leninism. And I I just think that it was a failure of imagination. I I've said several times people and maybe we'll talk about it today when people ask me, &quot;What are you looking for in a Fed
[00:05:03] chair?&quot; Said, &quot;It's someone with an open mind.&quot; If we go back to the 1990s, Alan Greenspan did a magnificent job because he had an open mind that the internet office modernization boom was going to create a productivity bonanza for the US economy. And he let the economy he let it rip. And we had an incredible economy paid down a tremendous amount of debt that by 1998 1999 with a combination of
[00:05:38] Clinton administration having gotten religion new Gingrich and his policies there was talk the at the end of the 90s that there might not be enough government debt to you meet the needs of the financial system which is the opposite of what we have Now, so again, I I would uh part of it was just anything the president does must be wrong. Part of it was a failure of imagination. And you know, there there's some very good studies coming out now
[00:06:09] that are showing why why everyone has been wrong that the the measurement problems the on the increase in goods prices. There's a study from not a friend of the administration, the San Francisco Fed with 150 years of data, I would refer everyone to that that shows that tariffs do not cause inflation, that they're actually disinflationary. So, has anybody read that study? Scott, has that been, I would say, a part of
[00:06:42] the conversation in the administration now that there's this new revenue stream for the federal government, there's an opportunity to cut taxes and cut other sources of revenue for the federal government and that could potentially accelerate the economy. But balancing that question against the importance of cutting the deficit, how do you think about the balance between using tariffs as a mechanism for reducing the tax burden on
[00:07:09] the economy versus using the tariffs as an incremental revenue source for the federal government to start to reduce the deficit and pay down the debt eventually? David, before I answer that, another thing I want to go back to is President Trump and one one of the reasons for the success of the tariff policy or I I'll give you two reasons. One is that President Trump has used them for national security. So the
[00:07:33] tariff policy has become part of national security who's able to use the tariffs to negotiate trade deals. when he ratcheted up some of the tariff levels to 35 49 50% even 145 with the Chinese it brings people to the table in uh the spring the president put fentanyl tariffs on Mexico they've all come to the table to help and partner with the US government to end this scourge on our people we're seeing fentanyl deaths drop We because
[00:08:10] of the the good efforts of China, we made a good faith move and decreased their fentanyl tariffs by half down to 10%. So that's been national security. Same thing on October 8th when Beijing announced that they were going to put a worldwide export license on any any product that had 01% of Chinese rare earths in it, which would have ground the Western trading system to a halt. President Trump was able to threaten a
[00:08:43] 100% tariff and the Chinese immediately came to the table. The the other thing that I would say so so that's all national security. The other thing that I would say that people missed that I was convinced of is that the Chinese business model is based on volume. It's based on employment. It's based on a 5-year plan. And I I think everyone neglected the idea that despite the t the tariffs, the Chinese were going to
[00:09:10] keep producing that it it's one of these they may lose a dollar on every product, but they make up for it in volume. Can we forecast these tariffs through 28 or do you think that we have to have moments where whether it's the Supreme Court who's opining on one body of language versus another may change your course? But do you feel confident that we can forecast these revenues now out through the balance of President Trump's
[00:09:38] term? >> Well, I I think the I think the revenues are are a combination of revenues. So the the ultimate goal of tariffs the the revenue collection I think but of in a way is a payback for the imbalances that have gone on over the years. But over time the the real idea is to balance trade and reshore manufacturing and bring our economy into balance with our trading partners. So what should happen is over time tariff income will come
[00:10:12] down and US tax receipts will come up whether it's from factory jobs or more manufacturing and through higher payroll taxes. So you we will we will start off at this very high level then we will rebalance and come up. So I I I think it's difficult to know the timing. We know the direction. We know the destination, but the the timing is difficult on terrorists versus increased domestic tax revenues. What what I can
[00:10:43] say is when when I got into the investment business in the 1980s, there was always a focus the on trade and how much were we making in the US and again that everything made outside of the US is a decrease in US GDP. So, as we bring it back, I think we're going to start looking more at the the content of trade versus domestic manufacturing as a component of GDP acceleration. >> As we wrap tariffs, we have a Supreme Court ruling coming in
[00:11:18] January. What happens if that goes against the administration? >> Well, I I don't think it's against the administration. And I actually think it's against the American people and it it will be again as I said it it will be a hit to national security and the the the revenues aren't the the focus here. The revenues aren't the focus. The the the revenues can be replaced but all all the things that President Trump has been
[00:11:45] able to do using tariffs on the national security side will be will be jeopardized. >> Would you be able to just work with Congress on them? seems to how the constit see seems to be how the constitution was designed is that the congress would have this authority. So why not just work with them? Is that the fallback plan? >> What why would you say congress would have what authority? >> Well the constitution has tariff
[00:12:09] control. So that's at least my understanding of the US constitution and I think that's why there's a supreme court case. Correct. Uh well the we we'll see uh the the president has has the right under AIPA the for licenses we've also seen um it it was I I was at the Supreme Court and for for your viewers a bucket list event should be going to see a Supreme Court hearing. It it it it is in terms of any institution
[00:12:42] that is the closest to what our framers designed and kind of jumped into business in 1789. It is probably it is surely the closest to what you would have seen at the court. They're very convivial with each other. >> Yeah. I listen to it. It's quite compelling content. Yeah. >> Yeah. It's it's and to to be there in person uh not not my political leanings but ju justice Kagan the was just an intellect of towering uh impressiveness.
[00:13:15] I came away thinking I am glad that Justice Alto is not my father because [laughter] he he he he is smart. He is bombastic and when when he he got the knife into a couple of the plaintiffs in a line of questioning and he uh move moves it around quite a bit. So, [clears throat] um, but one one line of questioning in in this that one one of the plaintiffs agreed on was so and it was either from Justice Alita or
[00:13:48] Justice Kavanagh was you were telling this court that the president of the United States can do 100% embargo but he cannot put on a 1% tariff and the plaintiff said yes. >> Yeah. And that ruling is coming out in a few months. It's >> January or February expectation. Yeah. >> January, February. And Jason, to your question, u I I I don't know what the ruling is going to be. My my guess is everyone, you know, I I think that
[00:14:17] framing is very important in any issue. And I think the framing thus far has been very poor because it's viewed as 01. It's up down. And I my guess is it will be more nuanced. having been in the room for instance I I think uh many in the media were at a different hearing than I was at. So when Justice uh Barrett Comey Barrett said if we undo this it'll be a mess that was viewed as just it will be a mess as opposed to
[00:14:52] I believe she was actually leaning toward looking for a reason not to undo it because it would the refund she was referring to the refunds the president has absolute ability or the executive branch has absolute ability through 301's 230 32s and something called 122s to raise revenue on trade. So using the IEPA is not a stretch of that authority. >> Okay. So I I think the question and I really appreciate the introspection here
[00:15:27] on year one and the optimism for year two. Wall Street, the tech industry, we've absolutely loved the results in year one. My portfolio has surged. So that's fantastic. Thank you. probably beyond my expectation, but Main Street is particularly displeased with the Trump administration's first year. Your net approval rating is the lowest on two key issues. Inflation net approval rating down about 30% uh on average
[00:15:50] since the summer and on the economy 18% net negative. And so this is quite paradoxical obviously since Trump was elected and considered historically very strong on those two specific issues. So my question to you is, are the American people wrong? Or maybe did President Trump set expectations too high during the election or do you just need more time to execute and you're asking the American people humbly to give you more
[00:16:18] time? >> Well, I I I think it's C because as Vice President Vance has said, we didn't get here overnight. We inherited a mess. And I think 2026 is going to be a a very good year for the American people for Main Street. And what we are not going to do is a which is what the Biden administration did and many commentators whether it was Greg in the Wall Street Journal, the toxic Paul Krugman who I seems to have been booted from the New
[00:16:49] York Times and is relegated to Substack or the former vice chair of the Fed uh Alan Blinder. And they said, &quot;Oh, no. You don't understand how good you have it. You know, eat eat your drink your grog, have your bread, peasants. Um, we we'll give you a little more that you It's a vibe session. And we're going to explain to you why you have it really good. We understand that the American people are hurting. And I think the way
[00:17:17] to think about it is there's a price level that things appreciated to during the Biden administration. And then there is the inflation level. The price level has gotten very high. Uh I think cumulative CPI during the Biden administration was 21 22%. There's a Wall Street firm called Strategus Research. They do something called the common man index and it it is what do working families need? gasoline insurance, the uh autos, mostly used
[00:17:49] cars, rent, staples, and that appreciated by about 35%. So, people are seething over the high price level. And you as we saw in the inflation print this week, inflation is starting to turn down. And affordabil affordability is two parts. It is getting the price is under control. Some things we can decrease. Gasoline is coming down substantially. I would expect that it would come down much more. Oil. Oil is down substantially.
[00:18:26] Gasoline follows it with a lag. Uh rents are down and we are now seeing uh the effects of what 10 to 20 million undocumented people coming into the country did for rents. that this mass unfettered immigration for D and C rent levels was through the roof. There there's a study from Wharton that shows that one 1% of population increase in in a city leads to 1% rent. So, you know, we can see why rent went up that if the
[00:18:58] migrants are going home, we are now seeing rents are down about 5%. I think that trend will continue. Again, the inflation numbers are starting to roll down. I think that they will. And then the other side is real incomes, which I think are starting to accelerate. Real incomes are about up about 1.8% since President Trump took office. And that's back to the Main Street question. >> So, just one quick followup there and
[00:19:26] I'll give it back to my compatriots. We need more time. This is not a one-year project. It's going to take two or three years and we're not going to gaslight you and the numbers are looking good. On that note, we had the shutdown October numbers were not complete. There's a bunch of reports now uh and hand ringing over those numbers. I think maybe you could address it, which is the BLS filled in a lot of the non-servey
[00:19:50] data sources with some zeros. Uh and potentially the criticism now or the concern on Wall Street and from analysts is that maybe this 2.7 number is over optimistic. maybe you could address people's concerns and can we trust you with the numbers I think is what Wall Street saying. >> Uh well, you know, again, it it's amazing when a good number comes out, then it switches to that. And Jason, just let me tell you, every every Wall
[00:20:20] Street predictor on Bloomberg was wrong. So, what do you do when you're wrong? You blame the measurement. You blame the the data. And there there's always a lot of imputed data the in any of these numbers. That's why we get revisions. And I I'm looking at I was looking at the numbers and paradoxically the two things that I think are coming down the fastest which are rent uh also it's known as the owner owner occupied uh