[00:35:11] Um, and you know, I'll just point out that when the bond yields were quite high, the Fed did buy quite a bit. Uh, and they would actually have a large profit if they stopped during during that period. Instead, they continued on when we were the near near the the zero bound. And what what we've ended up with here is they pushed the asset price up. The interest rates were low. Many people couldn't buy a house during COVID, but
[00:35:41] now the interest rate has normalized. And you know, we're just in a much more normal period for interest rates, but we're not in a normal period for asset prices because so many people still have the 3% mortgages from co and back back to your question on what should the Fed buy traditionally that the Fed since large scale asset purchases began in 2009, they just bought government bonds. They they choose the duration. uh they switched uh
[00:36:14] during COVID because look there there were estimates we were going to have a 20 30 40% GDP decrease. Um so they they were buying indices of high yield bonds of of corporate bonds to stabilize the market. I think what you're alluding to Jason is also during that period in conjunction with Treasury uh there were bailouts and that's done by a facility that is negotiated between the Fed and the Treasury called a 133 facility and
[00:36:50] you identify strategic industries that may be struggling. It it would not have behooved anyone for the airline industry to go belly up because of a a virus that turned out to be quite transitory. So, you know, again, I I think these are emergency powers. I think they should have them in an emergency, but I think the duration went on much much too long. If you're now in the bond sales game, Secretary Bessent, I mean, you you've been on the
[00:37:25] other side of the market, but now you're selling the bonds. What do you see in terms of appetite for US bonds? Has China disappeared? Are they still selling down? Are there other buyers emerging? And how does broader capital markets look to US debt in this moment? Well, it's it's like the John Maynard Kaine said said a lot lot of economics is is a beauty pageant. You're just picking like who do you think's going to
[00:37:54] win? And that that the U the US became the the worldwide winner last year. We had the best performing bond market, best performing market since 2020. And I I think that was for a combination of reasons. One was the fiscal progress we made and everyone went from the tariffs. They were a doomsday machine to hm maybe tariffs are taking us to the promised land in terms of fiscal payown. And uh I I also think inflation expectations have
[00:38:32] remained well anchored. Back to Jason's question, why 2%? We've chosen 2%. And I I I think it it's very difficult to do a midair refueling or to call an audible on two when you're above two because then it looks like when you're above a level, you will always fudge upward. So I I think there is a very robust conversation to get back once we are back to two which I I think will be in sight then we can have a discussion is
[00:39:08] it much smarter to have a range like what what drives me crazy the the economy the markets are biology they're not math they're not physics they're they're nonlinearities they're very complex systems they're mutations in the system and this idea that we can have this decimal point certainty is just absurd. So I I believe that once we re anchor to the target then we could talk about a range and we could decide whether the range is from
[00:39:46] 2.5 to 1.5 is it from 1 to three but I I think it's very difficult to uh reanchor until you meet the target and maintain credibility. Maybe as we wrap up on the Fed, can you give us a sense of the candidates that are being interviewed right now by President Trump, Kevin Wish, Kevin Hasset, >> Waller, >> Chris Waller, and Rick? >> Chris Waller, Rick Reed. How do you think each of those will try to reshape the Fed more in this constrained mode
[00:40:17] that you're advocating for? Well, I I I think many many of them have already come out and said that they uh do want to shrink it both as the footprint of the institution in the economy but shrink the institution itself that the the Fed does not as we talked about earlier the the Fed does not rely on appropriations. The Fed just prints its own money and it's has its own budget and as I talked about in the article it
[00:40:44] has its own police force. has its own, you know, we've seen the big cost overruns at the building uh here in DC. If like if Treasury the we're looking at new buildings for the the men of the Bureau of Engraving, if we had that kind of cost overrun, I can guarantee you that I would be up in Capitol Hill getting a the welldeserved earful. >> Yeah. You'd be pillared. Yeah. So, um, but e each one of them has talked about
[00:41:20] moving back toward the more traditional Fed role, [snorts] moving into the just getting the Fed back into the background. You know, it it it wasn't meant that the market and the economy and the American people were supposed to hinge on every word. It was supposed to be a predictable process. You know, I I think many many of them have talked about getting rid of this so-called dotpot, the summary of economic projections. Uh they they've talked
[00:41:47] about what should we do uh with the regional banks. No one no one's talking about getting rid of them or the regional bank presidents, but should each one of the regional banks have a specialty, go back to a center of excellence? Why do we have so many overlapping functions? Uh, you know, I I can tell you for for me as someone who's an economic historian, the interview process has been fantastic because I I got to interview 11 of the most
[00:42:16] knowledgeable people on economics, the Fed, monetary policy. One time I got to interview five another time and I'll be with four of them with the president. So, you know, I I think I understand probably better than just about anybody in the country what needs to be done and everyone wants to see a de a smaller footprint and more predictability from what's going on. >> So, what happens in 2026 for Main Street? What can you promise them? What
[00:42:51] can you not promise them? What is out of your control? because we talk a lot about hey the speed limit and mortgage rates but you can't in your position correct me if I'm wrong have a dramatic impact on the supply of homes as one example so and so whatever you put the rates at it could just drive the prices of those homes up if we lower rates too quickly and then we have another situation like the great financial
[00:43:15] crisis where people are over bidding uh the the the remaining housing stock so what can you actually promise to the American people will happen in 2026 on Main Street. We know Wall Street's going to be fine and and these American entrepreneurs and these companies are firing on all cylinders. Fantastic. Lots of regulations taken out of the way, but what what can Main Street expect from the administration in 2026?
[00:43:39] >> Jason, two two things is one there there's nothing I can promise because that there's always a degree of uncertainty. Uh but one one of the things that we've been doing here at Treasury when we talk about loosening the financial regulations that the companies that suffered the most under these regulations were the small banks. So we have seen small and community banks disappear at an alarming rate. About half of them have disappeared
[00:44:11] since the GFC. So I what I can promise is that the regulatory regime for those banks is being loosened and is the the saying that there's three eight banks in the US that are too big to fail that the policies since the GFC were too small to succeed and we are doing everything to unleash the lending capability of these banks the pro their profit profitability will enable them to be part of their communities to lend more.
[00:44:48] 70% I think I do the statistics 70% of a lending 30 40% of real estate lending 40% of small business lending are from these main street lenders. So I can tell you there's going to be a bigger availability of credit. I can tell you that we are not going to blow out the budget deficit and cause you you will not see an MIT study that says that the Trump 2.0 caused inflation through the budget deficit. And I I can also tell
[00:45:22] you that we are working to increase working wages. In President Trump's first term, hourly workers did better than supervisory workers. bottom 50% of households had a better increase in net bigger increase in net worth than the top 10%. So you know we we are trying to level the playing field. Secretary Bessent, this is a I I would say conservative administration. And if you look at the kind of economic policy of of traditional conservative
[00:45:55] administrations, you would not assume that the administration would lead the federal government to make large investments in the private industry or to participate meaningfully in the economy. As we are seeing with some of the deals that have been done over the last couple of months where the the administration has taken equity stakes in key industries and key businesses and also has concurrently provided either
[00:46:21] regulatory unlock or or some sort of trade participation. Can you just comment on what some people are calling state capitalism? Is this from your view a a set of strategic interests or is this a permanent shift in how the the government plays a role in the economy and and and how does that make sense from a free market perspective? David, I think it goes back to the idea that free pure unfettered free trade was not fair
[00:46:48] trade. when when you have competitors whether they're chi China, Vietnam, some others uh sometimes in in Europe that have high subsidies then like this idea that perfect ricardian equivalents exist doesn't and we can see by these distortions that developed the these huge capital pools that have developed because of the imbalances. So if that's one point but and that's trade policy but on the other side there's national
[00:47:23] security policy and the only good thing I can say about co is it woke us up to the national security took us out of this paradigm that elongated free flowing the supply chains wherever they may be were the best that the um the the most smoothly functioning was desirable. Well, it it turns out that the most efficient is not always the safest, the most robust or the soundest. And we saw that during co we we discovered that the Chinese became
[00:48:01] unreliable suppliers. Uh India and some of the other countries they acted surprise surprise in their national interest. So uh what we if you look at the industries where we are taking stakes and moving forward we've identified five to eight strategic industries where the US we have to have endogenous production or at least adjacent to us the in North America or this hemisphere. Um we and I I think of it as it's the kind of thing that you
[00:48:40] would have seen during World War II and we are in an economic war and we do not want it to become a kinetic war but we have to be prepared if if it could but when when we think about huge amount 80 90% of the precursor chemicals that go into US pharmaceuticals are made overseas majority in China or India semiconductors in in my life I believe that the greatest economic threat to the world economy to the US economy more than the Arab oil
[00:49:19] embargo that I lived through in the 70s when I was lined up with my parents to the at the pump to do odd even days because of the oil embargo. The biggest threat is that 97% of the upper level precision chip manufacturer, the advanced chip manufacturers is made in Taiwan and we need to bring a portion of that back to the US. Uh same for steel, same for ship building, same for pharmaceuticals. So the interventions are all the in those
[00:49:56] areas. Scott, as we wrap, I'd like to go back to one topic you spoke about at the beginning, which is you've had to overcome a lot of Biden era difficulty and a lot of the groundwork, as you said, will be seen in 26 and beyond. And I just want to give you a final moment to talk about those in two buckets. Bucket number one is there's a lot of tax cuts that will hit starting January 1. And I think it would be good for
[00:50:20] people to understand what's coming. And then bucket number two, there's been this incredible movement and energy around Trump accounts. And you even spoke about this yesterday about the value of compounding and teaching people the financial literacy to understand what's possible for all these kids. And I just want to give you a chance to talk about those two topics as we wrap. >> Couple points here. what we are going to
[00:50:43] see next year that if you think about the the signature parts of the the tax bill I I think that the powerful the most powerful parts uh had uh the immediate expensing for American business uh permanent for equipment and then four or five year window for factories so we are seeing already seeing a capex boom so 2025 was a capex boom. I think that is going to accelerate with all the trade deals we've done. I was just about
[00:51:19] 6 weeks ago in my hometown of Charleston, South Carolina, Boeing, the largest employer there, is increasing their plant by 50% for the Dreamliners result of the trade deals, but it's also part of the tax deal. So, we're going to continue seeing this capex boom that turns into an employment boom. on the other side for working Americans. The president I I led the administration's team up on the hill uh in terms of what was non-negotiable
[00:51:52] non-negotiable for the president and a lot of traditional Republicans didn't like his campaign promises to working Americans and the president never yielded on those. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, deductibility of auto loans for Americanmade cars. So the the bill was done on July 4th. It's retroactive to the beginning of the year for working Americans, retroactive to January 20th.
[00:52:20] uh for corporates. So, working Americans, I I also have the honor of being the IRS commissioner, and I can see that we're going to have a gigantic refund year in the first quarter because no one changed their working Americans did not change their withholding. So I I think households could see depending on the the number of workers $1,000 $2,000 refunds they will change their withholding schedule at the beginning of
[00:52:49] the year and they will get an automatic increase the in real wages. So I think that's going to be a very uh I I think that's going to be a very powerful combo of corporate and individuals. And then the the these Trump accounts I believe are a gamecher and I think this will end up more than what he did for defense, more than he did for strategic industries. When we look back in 50 years, I think this administration will
[00:53:24] have saved or created the idea that everyone is an equity owner, that everyone has a stake in the market. Right now, about 38% of Americans do not own equities either directly or through some kind of a 401k or something. So by giving every child $1,000 at birth the for these accounts we are going to increase financial literacy. We're going to increase people's optimism in the market here at Treasury. We're going to
[00:53:55] do the a dramatic amount of financial literacy, financial education. We're going to push that out to the schools. And I I think this idea of every American learning h that money can make money for them that you know we we will close the gap over time. We'll go from 38% not owning equities that if this continues hopefully that can be zero and everybody gets a stake in American prosperity that the American innovation that you
[00:54:29] all do and I I think it is going to you when I look at sort of the the polling for young people in terms of their view of socialism, their their view of capitalism, I I think that this is going to make you know every man Huey Long said, &quot;Every man a king.&quot; I think this is going to make a the every the man and woman a a a market participant. And I think it's fantastic. It I began the announcement the other day. I said, you
[00:55:01] know, I've talked about parallel prosperity, Wall Street and Main Street. This is the biggest merger in history because it is merging Main Street and Wall Street. And I I grew up in a small town in South Carolina. The only thing I knew about Wall Street was something bad had happened in 1929 and I was fortunate went to Yale and then u went to New York. But you you shouldn't have to have that path that if you want to stay in your hometown but
[00:55:29] participate in the market and learn a lot about it, this is the ultimate program for that. And what we're doing is parents, family members, employers can add $5,000. Philanthropists like Susan Michael Dell are going to put in $6.25 billion to top up the accounts. And then we're up to probably 20 states that are going to also top up the accounts. Uh employers, we've got uh credit card companies, banks that are already on board. and
[00:56:04] you're just going to keep pushing more money into these accounts. Americans are the most generous people in the history of the world. We have never had a direct way to get rid of the friction of philanthropy and give money directly to American children. >> Yeah. Fantastic. >> A real watershed moment. Um, Secretary Bessant, we appreciate your leadership and your service and for spending the time with us here today. You've been
[00:56:32] open and articulate as always and we thank you for that. We appreciate it. For Chimath Jason, this is the uh the All-In podcast and thank you Secretary Besson. >> Good. Well, it's an honor to serve the American people. So, thank you all. [music] [music]