[00:17:49] cars, rent, staples, and that appreciated by about 35%. So, people are seething over the high price level. And you as we saw in the inflation print this week, inflation is starting to turn down. And affordabil affordability is two parts. It is getting the price is under control. Some things we can decrease. Gasoline is coming down substantially. I would expect that it would come down much more. Oil. Oil is down substantially.
[00:18:26] Gasoline follows it with a lag. Uh rents are down and we are now seeing uh the effects of what 10 to 20 million undocumented people coming into the country did for rents. that this mass unfettered immigration for D and C rent levels was through the roof. There there's a study from Wharton that shows that one 1% of population increase in in a city leads to 1% rent. So, you know, we can see why rent went up that if the
[00:18:58] migrants are going home, we are now seeing rents are down about 5%. I think that trend will continue. Again, the inflation numbers are starting to roll down. I think that they will. And then the other side is real incomes, which I think are starting to accelerate. Real incomes are about up about 1.8% since President Trump took office. And that's back to the Main Street question. >> So, just one quick followup there and
[00:19:26] I'll give it back to my compatriots. We need more time. This is not a one-year project. It's going to take two or three years and we're not going to gaslight you and the numbers are looking good. On that note, we had the shutdown October numbers were not complete. There's a bunch of reports now uh and hand ringing over those numbers. I think maybe you could address it, which is the BLS filled in a lot of the non-servey
[00:19:50] data sources with some zeros. Uh and potentially the criticism now or the concern on Wall Street and from analysts is that maybe this 2.7 number is over optimistic. maybe you could address people's concerns and can we trust you with the numbers I think is what Wall Street saying. >> Uh well, you know, again, it it's amazing when a good number comes out, then it switches to that. And Jason, just let me tell you, every every Wall
[00:20:20] Street predictor on Bloomberg was wrong. So, what do you do when you're wrong? You blame the measurement. You blame the the data. And there there's always a lot of imputed data the in any of these numbers. That's why we get revisions. And I I'm looking at I was looking at the numbers and paradoxically the two things that I think are coming down the fastest which are rent uh also it's known as the owner owner occupied uh
[00:20:50] funding or owner occupied rent. Uh that was actually up on the month. I believe it is uh turned negative. And then the other thing that was up was energy and gasoline which we can is an observable event that those prices have decreased substantially uh from September October. So I I actually think it was a a pretty uh accurate number. >> So you've checked into that the BLS numbers from October. You feel confident
[00:21:20] they they put those placeholders. They put those assumptions in correctly. You feel confident in that? Look, the the the BLS is problematic. We we've seen that the whole time. I have no reason to believe that this is any less robust than any other data series. And I I would say with with rent, with uh energy that those are very large components that have turned down substantially that actually recorded a gain for that
[00:21:48] measurement period. Just to build on that, we had people on our team go and run our own analysis both using interpolation and other data points and we get to exactly Scott's numbers and frankly on on the margin sometimes slightly better. So I think the trend is very much what you and Kevin Hasset have been talking about in the last couple days. And gentlemen, I would also point you to Fed Governor Steven Myron, who came came from CEA,
[00:22:16] he'll be going back to CA probably in February or March, delivered a very robust uh speech at Colombia. It was either a week or two ago and he made some very interesting measurement points on inflation. So one one piece of the inflation component there is financial services and that goes up based on whether the stock market's up. >> That's right. >> When in fact portfolio management costs have come down that it is showing an
[00:22:47] increase in cost. So that back to Jason's question on BL BLS uh how how robust are the numbers? I I think there are a lot of changes that could be adjusted to give us a better picture. Let's stay on the affordability topic and I would like to go to this essay you wrote which is uh incredible the Fed's new gain of function monetary policy which you wrote in the international economy. We'll link to this article. A
[00:23:14] lot of it goes to how the Fed in many ways has exacerbated the sense of inequality and the actual factual inequality. But before I ask you that narrow question, Scott, can you help our viewers just take a step back and give us a little bit of historical context on the Fed itself? So, we had a central bank in the 1700s, in the 1800s. Andrew Jackson got rid of it. It came back in the early 1900s. when we established it then
[00:23:45] versus what it's doing today and you've studied this carefully. Can you help us understand and contrast and compare how it started versus how it's going? >> Sure. So, Fed was created in 1913 as a response to the panic of 1907 which people most people don't know about. It made the crash of 29 look like a day at the beach. >> Nickerbacher crisis. Yeah, >> the necrobacher crisis and just the a domino effect within the financial
[00:24:12] system there there was no central bank. Bank of England is a very old central bank and had been functioning well. uh JP Morgan actually had to personally step in uh in in the crisis and it it was deemed that there should be a mechanism for the the government to be able to uh either wind down, provide liquidity and have have a greater control in the economy rather than priv private operators. For much of its history, uh Treasury uh had a seat at
[00:24:45] the table on the Federal Reserve. Post World War II that stopped. And [snorts] then if we look at more recent history, what happened after the great financial crisis? We saw this paralysis in the economy. I think a huge part of it which has been part of my regulatory agenda here at Treasury this year through the financial stability oversight council is undoing these the poorly thoughtout crisis crisis legislation.
[00:25:16] But what the crisis legislation did and look after financial I I've studied and taught at Yale the history of financial crisis there's always retribution and you you go from a lack regulatory regime to an over constricted regulatory regime. So coming out of the traumatic GFC for for 10 years we had this over constricted regulatory regime where the Fed was deemed to be the only game in town. So you know imagine
[00:25:49] one one example would be a a home in North Florida that sold for $500,000 in 2006. All of a sudden people are handing the keys back. It is now $150,000. Great buy, great affordability, but because of the new financial regulation and the incentives that the the banks were in some cases rightly taken to the woodshed for bad behavior, but there was no incentive to give credit at the bottom. So what happened the asset
[00:26:20] owners, people with money were able to accumulate assets. We saw very poor growth during the period during the Obama administration and the the Fed cap kept rates low for very long. But what the Fed engaged in starting I believe was October 6 o excuse me March 6 or March 8th uh 2009 was the Fed began began what we call QE or largecale asset purchases. They went went in the market started buying long bonds and the theory
[00:26:53] of the case there is you create liquidity you take safe assets out of the market uh long duration safe assets and then the people who receive that money uh would buy uh more risky assets. Ben Bernani famously said when he was asked what's the purpose of QE he told everyone go buy equities. Well not everyone could buy equities. So, we we ended up with like this this two-tier economy where either you were an asset
[00:27:25] holder or you weren't and that the Fed constant probably kept or definitely kept QE going for too long. And you know, I I called the Fed the engine of inequality. And someone said to me, well, do you believe that the Fed is responsible for economic equality in the system? And I said, absolutely not. that is not one of their mandates, but they shouldn't be exacerbating it and they were the the leading cause of it. There
[00:27:56] there's a fantastic book by a I I know Karen Pedaru very well. Uh she's center left to maybe hard. >> Yeah. Not not your politics for sure. >> Not my politics, but her book, The Fed, the Engine, >> her book is excellent. Yeah. >> Engine of inequality. So we just kept pushing up these asset prices and then then we got co and uh markets became disorderly and the Fed did exactly what it should do. It came in, it stabilized
[00:28:26] the market, but for some reason they decided that they needed to continue this QE right up until the 20 I think February March of 2023 and they were in essence financing this massive debt increase 7 trillion that we that we saw during that period. So, as a long way of saying the central bank has become much more involved in the economy. I think a lot of people don't understand we've gone from what used to be fairly straightforward rate setting
[00:29:01] mechanism to now we have kind of this three-headed beast at the Fed or this very complex calculus that I don't think anyone really understands myself included. uh you have rate setting policy, you have uh balance sheet policy. So the Fed has a very big balance sheet now. And then you have regulatory. >> Well, there's a part of your article which was stunning to me where you describe how the budget of the Fed works
[00:29:30] and effectively when you understand that there's a part of the Fed which acts like a hedge fund and effectively is taking risk and the revenues that they generate are used to subsidize their operations. Can you explain that for folks cuz I I didn't fully realize that that was happening. >> Yeah. Well, well, again, the that the Fed should make money. Fed typically you used to make money and would remit money back to the Treasury. And back to to
[00:29:57] David's question of the budget deficit, the the Fed was sending back about 3% of GDP through we have senior which is the float on the currency. uh there are other operations but then they started QE and no one told the Fed that you know you're not supposed to buy high so they they they paid a high high price for bonds low interest rates and they're arbitrage the Fed's losing about hundred billion dollars a year now
[00:30:29] >> if you look at one of the key drivers of Main Street's satisfaction with their economic standing it's the price of debt, the ability for them to buy a home, to buy a car, to extend their lives, and we've got the 10-year Treasury sitting, I think, 42 to 46 right now in terms of the rate. And I guess this may be a question that brings in two other issues, the fiscal issue and the economic issue. Is that a reflection of the state of the fiscal
[00:31:01] affairs of the federal government, the state of the economy, both or the state of markets selling off bonds? And doesn't the Fed have an important role to play in bringing those rates down and making rates accessible for Main Street? >> Well, I I think what the the Fed did, unfortunately, they took modern monetary theory from I say they went from MMT, modern monetary theory to MMP, modern monetary practice. So that the the the
[00:31:28] Biden administration issued all this debt and the Fed the Fed bought it. And there there's a very good study from MIT that's come out that shows uh you know in a way that only PhDs at MIT can be very precise. 42% of the great inflation was caused by the budget deficit. Another 17% was caused by the increase in inflation expectations which I think you could tie back to that. So you've got almost 60% David that was caused by
[00:31:57] the spending of the inflation. And I think what again to go back to my earlier point, I think what we're not getting credit for here is that if we can stabilize the budget deficit, even bring it down, that that will contribute to disinflation. If I think about central bank credibility, no in my career, probably post World War II, no central bank had more credibility than the Bundus Bank uh up until the advent
[00:32:28] of the euro. But they controlled the ger they worked with the German government and they would work with each other hand in hand. The Bundus bank would say if you give us the fiscal control if you give us if you are not prolificate if you give us the reasonable fiscal balance we will work with you we will foam the runway to allow you to decrease spending. We will decrease interest rates. And I I I think that's something
[00:32:58] we could be doing here. I >> I'm I'm glad that you too are confused by the Fed's actions, Secretary Besson, because I read your article and while I understand the mandate to get to 2% inflation, why it's 2%, not three. I'm I'm curious about your take on that because I did a little historical uh archaeology. I understand somebody in New Zealand came up with the two target as opposed to 2.5 or 1.5 or three. Let's
[00:33:23] put that aside for a second. The thing that I think most Americans don't understand and the and the second mandate, full employment, robust employment, that seems pretty easy to understand for all of us. But this qualit qualitative easing and and how they purchase and which assets they purchase and why seems to have a massively distorting effect on the economy, at least according to your essay and and some of the other sources
[00:33:46] you cite in this essay, which we have in the notes uh for people to read. What should we be doing this qualifi this QE at all? If you had your brothers and you could just, you know, swipe a pen here and and clean this up, would you just get rid of the QE portion of what they're doing? And how do they pick? Like, how do you pick whose corporate debt you buy? You know, are you buying Nvidas and Ubers and Google's because
[00:34:11] those are great companies or Microsofts or are you buying, you know, Fords or struggling companies or struggling airlines? How are those decisions made? and and should the American people be buying those things and why? >> Yeah. So, there's a lot to unpack there, uh, that absolutely large-scale asset purchases should be part of the so-called central bank toolkit. But I I think if we go back and look at CO, which was a real test, the the Bank of
[00:34:42] England had the best model. The markets became unhinged. They stepped in for a period I can't remember whether it was 30, 60 or 90 days. They stabilized markets and you they they were the buyer of last resort which is classic theory for what a central bank's supposed to do. They're supposed to provide liquidity. They're supposed to open a window where financial institutions can pledge collateral and do it that way.
[00:35:11] Um, and you know, I'll just point out that when the bond yields were quite high, the Fed did buy quite a bit. Uh, and they would actually have a large profit if they stopped during during that period. Instead, they continued on when we were the near near the the zero bound. And what what we've ended up with here is they pushed the asset price up. The interest rates were low. Many people couldn't buy a house during COVID, but
[00:35:41] now the interest rate has normalized. And you know, we're just in a much more normal period for interest rates, but we're not in a normal period for asset prices because so many people still have the 3% mortgages from co and back back to your question on what should the Fed buy traditionally that the Fed since large scale asset purchases began in 2009, they just bought government bonds. They they choose the duration. uh they switched uh
[00:36:14] during COVID because look there there were estimates we were going to have a 20 30 40% GDP decrease. Um so they they were buying indices of high yield bonds of of corporate bonds to stabilize the market. I think what you're alluding to Jason is also during that period in conjunction with Treasury uh there were bailouts and that's done by a facility that is negotiated between the Fed and the Treasury called a 133 facility and
[00:36:50] you identify strategic industries that may be struggling. It it would not have behooved anyone for the airline industry to go belly up because of a a virus that turned out to be quite transitory. So, you know, again, I I think these are emergency powers. I think they should have them in an emergency, but I think the duration went on much much too long. If you're now in the bond sales game, Secretary Bessent, I mean, you you've been on the
[00:37:25] other side of the market, but now you're selling the bonds. What do you see in terms of appetite for US bonds? Has China disappeared? Are they still selling down? Are there other buyers emerging? And how does broader capital markets look to US debt in this moment? Well, it's it's like the John Maynard Kaine said said a lot lot of economics is is a beauty pageant. You're just picking like who do you think's going to
[00:37:54] win? And that that the U the US became the the worldwide winner last year. We had the best performing bond market, best performing market since 2020. And I I think that was for a combination of reasons. One was the fiscal progress we made and everyone went from the tariffs. They were a doomsday machine to hm maybe tariffs are taking us to the promised land in terms of fiscal payown. And uh I I also think inflation expectations have