[00:14:09] where, you know, free speech and freedom of expression are American values and interests in and of themselves. But another priority for the administration is common sense on mass migration. And a lot of the speech that offends those in power has to do with migration policy. So there was a 31-month sentence handed down to a suburban mother named Lucy Connolly in the UK because after a man called Axel Rudabunga stabbed, I think it was a
[00:14:36] 7-year-old girl, an 8-year-old girl and a 9-year-old girl at a birthday party. There was ensuing unrest and she she tweeted something anti-migration. It was pretty inflammatory, but it would have been unambiguously legal in the United States. She said, "If this is what migration is going to do to our country." And I'm paraphrasing slightly, but I remember it pretty well. "If this is what migration means, then burn down
[00:14:57] the migrant hotels for all I care." This was a bereaved mother who'd lost a child. She saw three little girls murdered for no reason. And she reacted and then she felt bad and she deleted the tweet. That was a 30 31-month sentence. 31-month 31-month sentence in the United Kingdom. Meanwhile, you have actual pedophiles, actual child sex offenders who get minimal prison or none in the United Kingdom. And that that's
[00:15:24] led to this um epithet that you hear among UK activists, this quote-unquote two-tier policing. This activist cause that they've assembled around because they sense that if you oppose mass migration, if you make that kind of critique, you are subject to a different justice system than the kind of person who merely agitates for Sharia law in Britain or merely downloads child pornography in Britain. Yeah. So okay, so
[00:15:49] >> that Yeah, so I mean So I think um That was the gong of righteousness. >> [laughter] >> We appreciate it. And then just to add one more dimension to this. So US companies have been getting fined like crazy, right? In the UK and then the EU. And I think it's related to this issue, but can you just describe that like Yeah. Because that's where this crosses over into you know, an ally doing something that we think [snorts]
[00:16:19] is mad into directly hurting American interests, I guess, right? >> Right. So I don't believe there've been any big fines under the UK online safety act yet. >> But um its provisions take effect over time and some of those provisions are just coming online now including the ones relating to AI. Okay. And we have active litigation in American courts right now. One of the leading lawsuits involves the website 4chan which people who are very
[00:16:49] online in America may be familiar with. 4chan is kind of a no-holds-barred primordial soup for memes and the like. The cat memes come out of there. Activism, Occupy Wall Street came out of 4chan. But 4chan has essentially no censorship rules. It bans child pornography. That's pretty much it. And so the UK has decided that 4chan is not allowed to exist unless it pays a bunch of money to the United Kingdom for not
[00:17:11] policing its speech in accord with uh UK laws, the numerous UK speech statutes that led to prison sentences like the one I just discussed. But there was a large fine handed down during my recent European tour against X and I believe it was 100 140 million euros, but that might be dollars. I'm Are they targeting Elon because they disagree with his influence in the UK? Look, I can't speak for the UK regulators, but I can make inferences if
[00:17:38] Yeah, what's your inference? X X has a particular political valence. We saw Joe Biden after Elon acquired Twitter saying, you know, we we've got to find ways to go after him and I think that that sentiment might be shared. But as an under secretary of state, I'm not an advocate for one American company or even one American viewpoint on the free speech issue. If any American company were fined, let's say 140 million
[00:18:03] dollars even, by a foreign power for upholding the American First Amendment. If General Motors were treated that way, you know, the US government would have something to say about it. I also think that X is not the first company to be fined under EU digital regulations. So there's an infographic that circulated recently comparing you know, the revenues raised within the EU through other metrics and then revenues raised
[00:18:27] just by finding American tech companies. >> Right. And there's a suspicion that this is really kind of a de facto tax tax and pretexts are contrived for finding large American tech companies in order to raise revenue. Yeah, I I So that was the thing I think I was referring to is that and I think actually the president may have threw that out. Um that I think the the maybe this is more the EU, but the the DSA has become
[00:18:52] almost like a digital speed trap to try and find American companies. And it does massively disproportionately affect them to the point where you could argue that it's effectively like a tariff on American tech companies operating in Europe. And if that's the case, well, I mean, I guess Europe is allowed to have tariffs, but then that's going to change the tariffs that we set. So it's all part of a larger trade negotiation.
[00:19:17] Right, exactly. I've referred to the DSA before as a censorship tariff because the cost of maintaining the censorship apparatus under the DSA is intentionally levied on specific companies, mostly American ones that are that are subject to higher and more intricate regulatory standards than other companies are. And EU regulators say, "Well, that's not because they're American, that's because they're large." But the fact that
[00:19:38] they're American and not European surely makes them easier as a political proposition to tax. And so a lot of Americans see this as a tax. Really bizarre, David. We're seeing we're living in a time where we're seeing freedom of speech, expression go down in Europe and go up in the Middle East. You know, they just had the Riyadh Comedy Festival. There were some rules. Hey, you can't criticize the kingdom. Let's leave religion off the table, but
[00:20:03] you can go after your own. But uh we we might not uh we might have some sensitivities there. And um you know, then there's everything in between. South Korea does require you have a social security number essentially to post online. Um but David, I'm I'm wondering what you think about this overall trend in the world of what we're seeing with censorship. I mean, it's not a good trend. Um I think that the the purpose of
[00:20:31] censorship, like I mentioned before, is always to protect the people in power. And and and specifically, it it insulates them from criticism. But it'd be a lot better for them to hear that criticism and adjust their policies than it would be to try and switch off the you know, the feedback altogether. And it's very clear, I think, in Europe and the UK that these policies of open migration, mass migration are very unpopular. Why not
[00:20:57] listen to the people and adjust your policies instead of trying to silence them? Uh say what you will about President Trump uh and people have varying opinions, but South Park has been deranged this season. I mean, they have gone full bore in attacking him. Like to a level that I wouldn't feel comfortable explaining the details of it >> [laughter] >> uh here. Not on a family podcast. podcast. But but even Um President Trump has a
[00:21:27] fixed again on these things. We did have one weird thing that occurred. I think it was before your time, the Jimmy Kimmel Charlie Kirk kerfuffle. But even that, it seemed, David, um President Trump and the administration and Brendan Carr, friend of the pod, who's been on a couple times, um kind of rethought that one, yeah? Well, Jimmy Kimmel was back in the air within was it like two or three nights? So, yeah, I
[00:21:50] mean, there's no real censorship there. In that case, it was the network affiliates who were upset because [clears throat] he's cuz Jimmy Kimmel said something untrue and malicious and outrageous. So, in any event, the system kind of >> moment with after this problem. >> worked itself out. There was no like government censorship there. Brendan probably shouldn't have said what he said, in my estimation. Anyway, in any event, there was no
[00:22:11] government censorship. That's the bottom line. Um yeah, I think it is disturbing that uh countries that we see as our closest allies that share similar values, that are part of the same Western culture and history are moving in this direction of more and more censorship is disturbing, and I'm glad to see that um under President Trump, the Department of State is pushing back on this. Thanks, Sarah, the work that you're doing and
[00:22:37] Secretary Rubio. Extremely important. So, I think you're making a huge difference. I think we have to use the tools that we have, whether they're tools on trade or the denial of visas or um expressing condemnation to push back on this as we you know, as we will as we can. Let's talk about some of the new issues. Uh AI uh it was pretty obvious but 18 months ago when you saw a deepfake, it just didn't pass the uncanny valley. Uh Grok images, uh nano
[00:23:12] banana from our friends at Google. I mean, these things now, if you're if you're flipping by very quickly you could make a mistake. This also uh in terms of censorship we have significant protections in the United States for, say, cartoonists, as do the French. And they're mocking public figures. How is it different when you're mocking public figures uh presidents, prime ministers, cabinet members but the public can't tell cuz this is
[00:23:44] new. Right. I think I think this is a really interesting question, and it's our privilege to be at this new technological frontier where these new questions arise. Uh I'm glad you mentioned cartoonists. So, after Charlie Kirk was murdered, and I knew him, I represented him on some First Amendment issues in the United States, I saw Americans walking around in an old t-shirt from 10 years ago. And that t-shirt said Je suis Charlie.
[00:24:08] Uh because that was a t-shirt we bought when free speech in France was under threat. And French people stood up for it. The Charlie Hebdo cartoonists were bombed. They were murdered. Yeah. Um for saying things that offended religious zealots. And I think, you know, it's a different kind of religious zealotry to not want to allow any dissent online. And thinking back on that episode and how European consensus on free speech might
[00:24:32] have shifted since then is really sobering, but I think America, we take pride in being the kind of civilization where Charlie Kirk and Charlie Hebdo can both speak. I think making fun of public officials, you know, pointing out when the emperor has no clothes is one of the most essential things you can do in a democracy. If you believe in self-governance, you have to believe in that. And what's interesting about a
[00:24:53] deepfake is that the point of parody is that you can tell that it's parody. But if you're depicting a public official falsely in a way that people can't tell is a satirical or um non-authentic depiction, then the parody tension really isn't there. And what I would say, though, is whenever whenever we reach a new technological frontier, there's a temptation to just enact a flurry of new regulations. And if we
[00:25:19] look back over history at other frontiers that have caused similar instability, like the invention of the printing press, people thought that was the end of the world. The invention of the telegraph, there were worries about disinformation and attention span. The invention of the filmstrip, people thought the train was coming at them through the screen. The the the impulse to restrain that zeal to regulate and to allow
[00:25:41] people to adapt and to give freedom the benefit of the doubt, that impulse tends to be vindicated over time. When it comes to deepfakes, I think we have in in America and in Europe strong legal remedies against defamation. So, if someone creates an image of a public figure that is false and people are believing that image and a reasonable viewer would believe that that person engaged in that action, you can already
[00:26:03] sue for defamation. Right. And that that doesn't mean that >> And we have child protection and underage laws. Those are very strong. Yes. Yes. The thing is, just because you don't have AI-specific laws doesn't mean that you can do whatever you want with AI. You could still use AI as a tool to then break the law and be prosecuted. I mean, if you engage in cyber hacking, for example, and you use AI to do it, you're guilty
[00:26:29] of of a cybercrime. Yeah. So, there's a lot of things like that where uh there are plenty of existing laws that apply to AI, and we should just think about using all of those before you start then creating a bunch of AI-specific laws. >> Yeah, if those didn't cover it, then there would be, hey, maybe we need to have a thoughtful discussion because, you know, I'm trying to think of an edge case here, but um for cybersecurity, it's even hard to do.
[00:26:54] Like using voice clones, it's just fraud, you know? >> That's right. Wire fraud, you know? And it might be that it use the existing fraud statute, but there are little regulatory tweaks you can make the make the fraud easier to detect. So, one approach, which I don't think is always correct, but it it exemplifies one direction of thinking, is maybe there's watermarking or something on some AI images that would
[00:27:16] mitigate tort liability for some of the providers. Um or when we got when we when we invented capital markets on a mass scale, right? We had our old laws against fraud, but we kind of made some more fine-grained securities regulations. Like now you have to uh file a certain disclosure annually with your earnings and whatnot. And we didn't fundamentally change how we treated false information. We just developed
[00:27:39] some slightly more fine-tuned devices. But when I say fine-tuned, I think I think that's an important piece of guidance. You don't just go crazy and try to put the technological innovation back in the bottle, especially when you know, we have foreign policy rivals, like China, that are developing AI at um an aggressive pace. And if we if we cocoon ourselves in safetyism, we hurt our standing in that race. So, where Sarah, where do you think this
[00:28:06] relationship between the US and EU is now headed on this topic of free speech? I mean, there does seem to be a fundamental divergence. Um do I don't know the conversations that you're having, but do you think this gets worked out, or do you think the divide gets greater? What like where's this headed? So, before President Trump and Secretary Rubio did me the honor of this appointment, I was a litigator, and it was my job to fight. And now I'm a
[00:28:34] diplomat, so it is my job to be diplomatic. And in that spirit, I would like to sound a uh gong of optimism. Yeah. I think that a lot of ordinary Europeans are not comfortable with comedians getting dragged out of the airport, just like Europeans weren't comfortable with comedians getting murdered for publishing offensive cartoons. And if you look at polls in Europe, I think you see some of the sentiment. So, I don't know where things
[00:29:00] are going. I can't promise a panacea, but I will say that I've had productive conversations and hope that I'll have more. I mean, if it does become more acute, is Europe prepared for all the American social networks to be turned off and blocked by IP address? Because we really don't need the money. Like the these platforms, it's nice to make money in Europe, but maybe it's time >> would the European or would various
[00:29:27] European countries demand their own version, you know, would there be a UK-specific version of X? Is that where this would be headed? To an extent, because, you know, one way to resolve the transnational issue is geofencing. Now, I think I I understand that some of the UK enforcement actions, geofencing has not been enough, which is pretty ridiculous, but Geofencing is not enough for them. Yeah, like there's there's a
[00:29:49] there's a there's a small American website and I can't recall the name of it that Ofcom has sued and that that website responded, "Well, we've geofenced. We've blocked UK IPs, so you should have nothing to say about the content on our website." But Ofcom is still going to >> should be good, but those people then chose their citizens chose to get a VPN. Yes, that's well, that's and that's what >> Which costs 30 bucks a year and then you
[00:30:08] can make your own decision. Which is what the people of Iran are doing, too. So Yeah. Um but I think I think, you know, you mentioned like fire like blocking by IP address. I think some countries that just where the people where they don't have that Charlie Hebdo tradition, like countries like Russia or China, they just admit that they are censorious societies and they just block these websites. Right. It's like a great wall.
[00:30:30] Yeah, I mean the Great Wall in China. We have the Great Firewall. Which Yeah. we're not trying to take down. If you wanted to Could that happen? Could the UK put up a great firewall and just say that you know, we're blocking out the outside world? >> We call your bluff. >> I think it's technologically it's technologically feasible to a point. There are subventions, but it is not politically feasible because British