[00:28:34] diplomat, so it is my job to be diplomatic. And in that spirit, I would like to sound a uh gong of optimism. Yeah. I think that a lot of ordinary Europeans are not comfortable with comedians getting dragged out of the airport, just like Europeans weren't comfortable with comedians getting murdered for publishing offensive cartoons. And if you look at polls in Europe, I think you see some of the sentiment. So, I don't know where things
[00:29:00] are going. I can't promise a panacea, but I will say that I've had productive conversations and hope that I'll have more. I mean, if it does become more acute, is Europe prepared for all the American social networks to be turned off and blocked by IP address? Because we really don't need the money. Like the these platforms, it's nice to make money in Europe, but maybe it's time >> would the European or would various
[00:29:27] European countries demand their own version, you know, would there be a UK-specific version of X? Is that where this would be headed? To an extent, because, you know, one way to resolve the transnational issue is geofencing. Now, I think I I understand that some of the UK enforcement actions, geofencing has not been enough, which is pretty ridiculous, but Geofencing is not enough for them. Yeah, like there's there's a
[00:29:49] there's a there's a small American website and I can't recall the name of it that Ofcom has sued and that that website responded, "Well, we've geofenced. We've blocked UK IPs, so you should have nothing to say about the content on our website." But Ofcom is still going to >> should be good, but those people then chose their citizens chose to get a VPN. Yes, that's well, that's and that's what >> Which costs 30 bucks a year and then you
[00:30:08] can make your own decision. Which is what the people of Iran are doing, too. So Yeah. Um but I think I think, you know, you mentioned like fire like blocking by IP address. I think some countries that just where the people where they don't have that Charlie Hebdo tradition, like countries like Russia or China, they just admit that they are censorious societies and they just block these websites. Right. It's like a great wall.
[00:30:30] Yeah, I mean the Great Wall in China. We have the Great Firewall. Which Yeah. we're not trying to take down. If you wanted to Could that happen? Could the UK put up a great firewall and just say that you know, we're blocking out the outside world? >> We call your bluff. >> I think it's technologically it's technologically feasible to a point. There are subventions, but it is not politically feasible because British
[00:30:48] people want to be free. And I think if Keir Starmer said we're putting up a great firewall and you're not allowed to access any American social media anymore, he'd be out of office. Right. So that is their right, but they don't want to do that because it would be too obvious what they're doing and so therefore They want to do the fines. They want to put it underhanded. >> And we're pushing back saying, "No, you
[00:31:08] can't do that." >> Yeah, good luck doing that against Elon. He's pretty principled this guy and I think he can pay for the speeding ticket. I don't think it's going to be a problem. And I would say President Trump because I I do think that that President Trump's election definitely changed the direction of free speech in the United States, never mind the rest of the world, because I think under the Biden administration we now know from cases
[00:31:28] like Biden v. Missouri and then also, uh you know, what was released in the Twitter files and then since then even more disclosure that's come out that the Biden administration was pressuring social networks to engage in censorship. David, we did discuss this. You could bring up Biden for all of 2025, but when 2026 came around you had to vote No, but I'm just [laughter] I'm recounting I'm recounting what was happening for
[00:31:50] several years and President Trump changed that direction. Absolutely. And so if it weren't for that, I think we'd still be on a censorship track. >> if it was up to Zuckerberg, he would have continued to do it under Kamala. He did it with no problem under Biden. He's a weather vane. His entire position is based on what makes the system grow. Look, I think when it comes to these tech companies >> feelings on it. I think I think when it
[00:32:11] comes to the the tech companies, there's let's say a range of courage. Yes. And so I'd say Elon is an outlier in terms of willing to stand up Yeah. to the government in terms of protecting free speech and there's others who sort of just kind of more blow with the wind and do whatever the government is sort of um suggesting. Or demanding. demanding, but it was wrong. It was wrong for the government to be doing
[00:32:32] that, particularly in the US where you have a First Amendment. But let me And to catch people up, we literally had our FBI putting pressure on our own tech companies to say, "We don't like the the tone of these tweets, the tone of these posts we think are damaging." But we would have never gotten to the bottom of COVID and if it actually we should all be taking mysterious, you know, experimental vaccines. I took it. I'm
[00:32:56] okay. But like the folks who were saying, "Hey, maybe we don't need this. Maybe we don't need to give it to kids." Right. They don't see That whole discussion was shut down by the Biden administration. Now I you got me doing it. Irrefutably. And the the pretext for some of this was disinformation, a term that was really distended to encompass and if you read the white papers put out by these disinformation NGOs, they will admit,
[00:33:17] "Yeah, the information can be true, but if it promotes an adverse narrative, we don't like it." And that's such an Orwellian adverse narrative. Adverse narrative. Well, they call it misinformation. No, not misinformation. >> There's there's misinformation and disinformation. And the way some people define these was misinformation is false and disinformation is bad. And if disinformation pollutes your democracy,
[00:33:36] the wrong candidate right might win, I think is really the impulse. But we had information suppressed under auspices of combating disinformation that turned out to be true. So things that were suppressed included the assertion that the vaccine did not completely prevent transmission. That turned out to be true. It it mitigated transmission significantly, but it was not a sterilizing vaccine. Another thing that
[00:33:59] was suppressed >> the way is why a lot of people took it. They didn't want to They wanted to be a blocker in the system so they It's my social obligation to do it. And if had given the choice, they might not have. And another thing that was suppressed that was suppressed was the assessment that the virus might have leaked from a lab. And we now know that was that was the same assessment of a House Committee and the CIA. So the government thinks
[00:34:19] the virus They're not sure, but it might have leaked from a lab more likely than not. And you're you're reaching out to Twitter, to Facebook, to Instagram saying, "Hey, you know, we can't force you to take these posts down under the First Amendment, but we'd really appreciate it if you did. And if you want to stay in our good graces, you should." Which is a long way of saying we all need to be vigilant about it. In
[00:34:36] the United States, internationally, if you're not vigilant about free speech, there are people who will take it away. >> Yes. And let me let me ask a question about that. So you mentioned um organizations or NGOs who are kind of instigating. They're like you know, ginnying up these regulators. They're showing them cases, "What about this? What about this? What about that?" I'm curious and I think you've called
[00:34:56] this a censorship industrial complex. Could you just explain what this thing is and do you think that I know that some of these groups are in the US, not just Europe. In fact, they mostly might be in the US. And what I'm wondering is are they going to the European regulators as an end run around the First Amendment in the US because they can get European regulators to censor material that otherwise cannot be
[00:35:19] censored in the US? I mean, it's a great question, but it's a question we don't even need to ask because we know the answer and the answer is yes. So we have emails that have leaked from some of these NGOs. So one of them, the Center for Countering Digital Hate, which is a British NGO whose leader was the target of some of our visa sanctions, there are emails exchanged with with Democratic politicians in the United States and
[00:35:40] with politicians now very close to Keir Starmer saying, "Um our number one priority should be to kill Musk's Twitter." So kill American company, right? Um in order to suppress American political speech and our second priority is to instigate UK and EU regulatory action. So this is an entity taking government money to get foreign governments to come after American businesses. And this whole fact pattern where these where these American NGOs
[00:36:06] were working with the American government to send kind of forceful, they allege not technically coercive emails to to Twitter and Meta. Um that was an attempt by these activists to replicate sort of the EU DSA in a way that would kind of dodge the American First Amendment. So the EU DSA requires that member states designate NGOs as so-called trusted flaggers, meaning this this organization, its job is to sit on
[00:36:32] Twitter, look for offending tweets that might be hateful or whatever and report them to Twitter. And they get a privileged reporting channel and the company's required to give the give those reports first tranche priority. If you look at what was happening under Biden, it was a very similar system. These government agencies would arrange first tranche priority for these reports. And some of what was put into
[00:36:53] those channels, the reports were technically made by NGOs. You also had, you know, the the upside one of the small upsides of COVID, if you care about government transparency, is everyone is holding their meetings on video. And so you have these videos of these Zoom meetings with government operatives saying, "You know, we couldn't do this under the First Amendment, but fortunately this NGO on this call with us is going to do it
[00:37:12] instead." Yeah, and they have ways of pressuring people, which leads to our final questions for you, which is there are firms that would actually started in the conservative space and moved to the liberal. Let's try to get advertisers to cancel on this program. They went after Howard Stern and they went after the liberals first and they went after the conservatives. Let's get you know, Rush Limbaugh's advertisers to
[00:37:37] cancel. Oh my god, he said these incendiary things, yada yada. Um but we had a even more pernicious one, which is people started to say, "Well, hey, you're Cloudflare. Hey, you're Amazon. Hey, you're PayPal. Hey, you're Stripe. We're going to go after you and make sure that we shame slash pressure you sometimes behind the scenes to debank and to demonetize. YouTube got pulled into this as well. Like we're going to
[00:38:04] shadow ban your videos. They started labeling all in videos cuz we had conversations with scientists about COVID. Okay. Uh labeling also suppressed, I think. So what are your thoughts on that, which seems even more pernicious because if you take away a person's ability to monetize it, how do they scale Right. >> back? So there's been one successful Supreme Court case in US history on viewpoint-based debanking and that was
[00:38:29] my case, um which we won. And that was called NRA versus Vulo. And the way we got that into court was you had you had the New York financial regulator um for the, you know, for the pleadings, literally reaching out to financial institutions saying, "You know, it would really be better for your enterprise risk management framework if you didn't do if you didn't do business with any pro-gun groups." >> Enterprise risk management framework.
[00:38:53] >> have all these professionals and you guys have, you know, been in finance and you know this. Um like these this these bureaucracies hired within financial institutions to ensure compliance with all these regulations. And so they have these elaborate risk management protocols. And this gets a bit into the weeds, but there's this thing in finance called reputational risk. And that's supposed to be the reputation of a bank
[00:39:12] for safety, solvency, and soundness. You don't want to run on the bank. If everyone thinks the bank might fail, that's bad for the system. But there's this ESG movement to expand the concept of reputational risk to include things like, "Do you have a reputation for letting naughty, disfavored speakers have bank accounts?" And that came up in the NRA case. Supreme Court says the government is not allowed to do that.
[00:39:34] Even though the government, you know, our First Amendment says Congress shall make no law, you know, restricting the freedom of speech. This wasn't Congress making a law restricting the freedom of speech, but it was a government entity uh adversely applying regulations to choke off certain viewpoints. And they were applying it instead of going directly to the guy saying the thing you don't like, they're putting pressure on
[00:39:53] this risk-averse middleman, this bank. And the [clears throat] the the de-banking and de-platforming is insidious for exactly that reason. When you have a risk-averse middleman like a financial institution, It's almost like they designed it that way. >> Yeah. They they they they don't have skin in the game with respect They don't believe in your speech the way you do. They have their in-house counsel telling
[00:40:13] them that this is going to piss off the financial regulators, so it's easier to take it down. And my office is very >> the common theme is that when the government can't do it directly because it'd be a violation of the First Amendment, they use it an intermediary to do it. >> Right. So, you get the bank to de-bank someone, or you get an NGO Dark NGO. >> which is really a government organization that's funded by the
[00:40:34] government, but they call themselves non-government. So, they they do the quote-unquote fact-checking. Yeah. You know? Or um you know, you get one of these other cases where um you know, the the this was a little bit more overt, but where the FBI through the Biden administration is then putting pressure on the social networks. In any event, you're get like you said, a middleman to do the dirty work cuz the government can't do it directly.
[00:40:56] >> And to do it in a really nefarious Yes. way. That's hard to detect and Yes, it's like it'd be a shame if we blocked a merger. Like they were very Zuckerberg's a pragmatist, I'm going to go at him again. Like he likes to buy things, and if the FBI's calling you and you've got to get something through the FTC next, uh you're going to try to make nice, right? And that is the risk of giving any regulator kind of a capricious
[00:41:21] cudgel over the internet. Even if the even if the regulation isn't explicitly speech-based, it's just you can only do your merger if this guy likes likes the look of the merger, then companies are going to vie to impress that regulator. That I think a bit of that was going on frankly with the Jimmy Kimmel thing. Mhm. Um because you had this this this merger in the works, this Techna merger that they tried to complete under the
[00:41:41] Biden administration. And my friends in telecom tell me that when Techna was trying to sell itself during the Biden administration, it went out of its way to show the regulator how woke it was. And so now it has an incentive to show the administration that it's MAGA-aligned. And that's what happens when you give a regulator a large cudgel. Now, I want to say something about labeling. So, labeling videos sounds Oh, it's just
[00:42:03] transparency. What could be wrong with that? People People should know if fact-checkers think that something is wrong. And I think my office's approach on that is it depends on who's putting the label on there and for what purpose. So, a lot of these disinformation NGOs, it was almost like McCarthy It was almost like the red scare. Yes. >> make a list of outlets that were spreading disinformation, but they wouldn't just publish that list. They
[00:42:22] would send it around to the credit card companies, the payment processors, and suggest with with kind of an implicit government imprimatur because they're all government-funded as David very very relevantly points out. Like, you know, you guys really shouldn't be funding these websites. And the websites would never know why. And the viewer would never know why. I think a type of labeling that's really good is the type
[00:42:41] exemplified by community notes on X, where I can read the tweet, and then I can see what the community notes say about it. >> can see all And you can see a ranking of the community notes. It's very interesting. >> It's been a total game-changer. I remember when they were doing fact-checking and the fact-checking was so bad cuz the fact-checkers were biased, or sometimes it just wasn't good quality control. But the community note
[00:42:59] thing has like really worked, and you'll see that when someone posts something that's truly misinformation, like it's a fake image or fake article or something, >> like >> it always gets caught. It's kind of time. And then you get notified. You get a no If you like Have you noticed this? If you like It'll It'll come It'll circle back. >> it gets community noted, I get a notification, and then I feel like an idiot that Oh, I got fooled by this by