[00:00:00] David and I are staying in a 300-year-old house and uh we both smashed our head on the beams twice already. Uh but this is both our first Davos, David. Yes, first Davos. We've been here for 24 hours and um uh any first impressions here? Um it's interesting, you know, we're we're staying very far away. Yeah. They didn't apparently they didn't want you to be part of this. They didn't want me too close. >> [laughter]
[00:00:25] >> Yeah. But we finally we got you finally got you an invitation. Your invitation did not get lost in the mail. >> My invitation didn't get lost in the mail this time. But those of you who watch the pod, you know what I'm talking about. >> Inside joke. Yes. Um but it's great to be here and uh great to be here at USA House. Thanks to all the sponsors and um really delighted for our first guest for the pod, Sarah
[00:00:45] Rogers. Works for is the Under Secretary uh for public diplomacy at the State Department. For members here who don't know this position or what you've been charged with or what you've decided to work on, I'm curious about that. Did they tell you what to do or did you come up with your own mandate? But yeah, tell us everything about what you're doing. Longtime listener, first-time guest and thank you to both of us uh thank you
[00:01:09] from all of us at America House for joining us here. So, I am the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and when I got this nomination, my friends and family all congratulated me and then kind of furtively said, "What is that?" Yeah. Uh so, diplomacy traditionally concerns the relationship between the American government and foreign governments. Two ambassadors shake hands, make a deal, um solve the war. But public diplomacy is
[00:01:34] different. Public diplomacy addresses the relationship between the American government and foreign publics. And this has become a very important under secretariat with the rise of the internet and then during the Biden administration especially uh these mushrooming concerns about so-called disinformation and what do we do when there are allegedly malign influences on the public view of America um public's interest intersection with
[00:02:00] American interests. How do we interact with the internet and the information ecosystem? That is part of my portfolio. I also oversee other soft power activities including our educational and cultural and sports diplomacy. So, I am privileged to play a role in the World Cup this summer and the LA Olympics coming up and uh the Fulbright program and others like it. So, >> You seem particularly focused on freedom of speech and a little bit of
[00:02:28] tension between our standards and the companies in America which have made the move to being strongly freedom of speech, something that kind of got lost in our industry for a couple of years in technology but has now made, I think, um some significant progress on. Does seem like some folks in Europe don't share our love of freedom of speech. Maybe you could explain to us what the tension is today and what some of the regulations
[00:02:55] are that have been put in place in Europe. Sure, absolutely. So, the two main regulations that I've interfaced with since taking office and part of this is just a product of My first official trip was to Europe and while I was in Europe a large fine came down on an American platform X under the Digital Services Act which I'll get into in a moment. So, Europe um especially since since the Second World War, but I think really
[00:03:20] since the American founding and our codification of the First Amendment, you know, America has taken a much stronger approach on free speech than even most of the West. And with the rise of the internet and all communication or a lot of communication becoming transnational, we see these new technocratic regulatory frameworks in Europe bumping up against the commitments to free speech in the United States. And Jason makes an
[00:03:42] important observation that for a while some of these large American technology platforms were more inclined to moderate or to censor kind of in conformity with some prevailing um some prevailing norms and concerns in the United States. But I think in the United States we've shifted back toward a less censorious approach and so have these platforms. And at the same time, you have uh regulatory efforts in Europe
[00:04:08] and the UK and I'll I'll name a couple that I think have been particularly relevant. So, the UK has something called the Online Safety Act. The Online Safety Act imposes age-gating obligations on a broad swath of content, almost any content that's upsetting. And then requires platforms to run risk assessments for and in some cases remove content that the UK would say is illegal. And in the UK, you know, major
[00:04:35] categories of content are banned, are rendered illegal that would not be illegal in the United States, which is where these platforms are located, which is where their original user base is, which is where their executives live, um and which is their primary regulator. So, under the Online Safety Act, we now have um active litigation by the relevant regulator Ofcom against several American websites. These are websites that don't reach into
[00:04:58] the UK. They're not These aren't websites dedicated to discussing the Queen. They're not websites that sell goods in the United Kingdom. These are websites that exist on American soil, host large quantities of American users and in often in oftentimes discuss American political topics, but because users are permitted to discuss them in a way that offends UK law, there's the imposition of a UK fine. The Digital
[00:05:22] Services Act in the EU is similar. So, DSA contains but doesn't just contain uh content-based regulations, hate speech regulations. So, DSA requires all of it EU member states to adopt at minimum kind of a floor for hate speech prohibition and those prohibitions in the statute, I think, are much vaguer than American lawyers are accustomed to. And one of our one of our jurisprudential principles under the American First Amendment is if you're
[00:05:53] going to enact any regulation that comes close to touching speech, it needs to be very clear what you are prohibiting because you have this chilling effect concept. A vague prohibition will chill speech especially when that prohibition is imposed on a large risk-averse corporation. So, you impose vague prohibitions on large risk-averse corporations and that's how it becomes illegal to make jokes around the water
[00:06:15] cooler, for example. You see the same effect here. Digital Services Act also regulates other aspects of um digital commerce and social media. So, it regulates um things like transparency and competition and I think, you know, we have we have a lot of Europeans in the audience today and I hope none of them will find it contentious if I suggest that in Europe there is more of a focus on uh technocratic regulation as an arbiter of
[00:06:42] what's acceptable than there might be in America where we have this tradition that um really emphasizes like rugged individualism and individual conscience. >> And to be clear, no one is saying, certainly not the State Department or America, "Hey, you can't have your own platforms in Europe. Build your own. Build your own Facebook. Build your own Instagram. Build your own Twitter/X uh TikTok, whatever you'd like to build
[00:07:05] and you can have whatever standards you like on your platforms." We're saying, "Hey, these are our platforms. This is our standard and we don't want our users uh or our platforms to be receiving fines. That's that's our position." I I think I think that's basically it and look, when American companies operate abroad, they abide by the laws where they operate. But at a certain point, so so we recently issued some sanctions
[00:07:30] which we'll get into. And one of the individuals we sanctioned uh was a former EU official who threatened Elon Musk with enforcement action because X within the United States had said that it was going to host on a live uh Twitter Space an interview with Donald Trump, our president. So, it wasn't that Donald Trump had said anything violative. It wasn't there was a specific piece of content that the EU wanted to ban. It was just that the act
[00:07:54] of an American business hosting an interview with an American president might offend EU uh EU preferences about speech, generated a regulatory threat. And when you reach across borders and make a threat like that, that offends American interests and American values. And so, you can expect America to respond. And I think so I my history is as an American lawyer in American courts and we have, you know, we're a nation of 50 states and
[00:08:22] each state has its own regulations. We've had to think about, you know, when there's a website in California that operates in Texas, how do you decide to what extent Texas gets to regulate? And we have all these jurisdictional concepts like does the website purposefully avail itself of the forum? Is it Is it are you posting defamatory statements about a person in Texas? But the mere existence of a website in
[00:08:43] California that Texas doesn't like is hardly ever, basically never, a basis for regulation. And so, when we talk about things like extraterritoriality, you know, what we're really talking about is it's undisputed that Europeans get to have their own laws in Europe. But we also get to have our own laws in the United States. And we're celebrating 250 years of American independence. And so, we want, you know, we want our markets
[00:09:08] to be able to interoperate online um but we're not willing to give up American freedom of speech in the bargain. Hey David, when we look at and and I'm asking you this one so I can give you a pass on it, but what what do you think people are so scared of in the UK when it comes to freedom of speech? Uh and and maybe the most freedom of the the most um raucous platform X specifically? Well, I don't think the people are
[00:09:35] afraid. I think the government is afraid of the people criticizing it and therefore they're engaged in what censors always do, which is protect the people in power. Um there's something Sarah, you'll you should explain this to us, but as I understand, there've been over 12,000 people is it prosecuted or Arrested. >> arrested under the online safety act. Was that just in one year or is that since it That that was in 2023 alone. Okay.
[00:10:06] >> isn't just under the online safety act. So I think what's particularly insidious and particularly relevant about statutes like the OSA and the DSA is that these are portals through which existing censorship laws get applied to the internet. So a lot of these Brits are arrested under under existing statutes like there's a Communications Act, there's a law against inciting quote-unquote racial or religious hatred and we I think have
[00:10:30] differences of opinion about, you know, what amounts to incitement in America versus the UK. But so for example, you had a comedian called Graham Linehan who tweeted that if a woman sees a penis in a in a ladies' room, you know, she should feel free to kick that guy in the balls. And that's that's something a lot of comedians say and I think it channels an impulse that a lot of Americans and Europeans would frankly consider common
[00:10:52] sense. But he was dragged out of the airport like a terrorist, had his devices confiscated, was thrown in jail overnight and lost access my understanding is to his heart medication if I recall correctly. >> And because this was an incitement to violence. >> Because this offended some existing law against provocative speech in the UK. And the the online safety act is a device through which all of those existing laws get applied to the
[00:11:16] internet. You had another case in the UK where Joey Barton a footballer called somebody a bike nonce which nonce is not an American term, but I imagine you're insinuating someone is effeminate for riding a bike so much or in the manner that he rides the bike and that resulted in a suspended prison sentence but still a prison sentence >> Cuz he called somebody Yeah, basically. That's what we call in the United States now. And there were
[00:11:39] there was there were some other tweets too, but none none that would meet the bar for American incitement. So David, you're absolutely right. So that was in a single year of slightly over 12,000 Brits arrested for speech acts. And that is more than more than were arrested that year in Russia. More than in China. More than in Turkey. And when you talk to Brits about this, you know, you're absolutely right. Most
[00:12:02] of the British people that you talk to say this is totally unacceptable. And if you look at the polls in the UK, you see public sentiment against this kind of thing. But I've I've had, you know, both public and private engagements with regulators in these countries and the defense you hear is well, you know, we have a less chilling less totalitarian environment than China. So maybe more people are willing to break the rules,
[00:12:22] more people are willing to offend. But if you arrest 12,000 people a year for speech and you're raising children in an ecosystem where you can be dragged out of the airport for offending the dogmas of transgender activism, then you might not have a different culture than China for long. And and why should the United States be paying to defend your country and support it in fighting say a proxy war against Russia if that's
[00:12:50] basically the values that are being enforced. Right, exactly. When we interact with our NATO allies in the NATO context, we hear a lot about our shared history and shared values. And it's time to ask, you know, what values do we still share? We together with our allies comprised the free world after World War II and the free world that was assembled against communism. But the cornerstone of a free world of any free society has
[00:13:15] to be freedom of speech. And criticizing the uncomfortable speech is where this actual defense is necessary. Yes. And we have a very special, you know, bent in the United States to really go after our leaders. I do it every week with David since he's now a public servant. I mean, we go at it. And you're knocking on people's doors strictly for saying like, "Hey, you know, I I might have disagreements with the Catholic Church. I'm a
[00:13:42] Catholic. Well, a lot of it's about immigration, right? I mean, so I've seen a bunch of these examples, you know, on X. I saw one clip on X where a judge was handing down a 2-year sentence against somebody. I don't know if you this rings a bell, but supposedly for speech that I think was criticizing the UK's open immigration policies. That's where I sense a lot of the the prosecutions are, right? Right. And this is another place
[00:14:09] where, you know, free speech and freedom of expression are American values and interests in and of themselves. But another priority for the administration is common sense on mass migration. And a lot of the speech that offends those in power has to do with migration policy. So there was a 31-month sentence handed down to a suburban mother named Lucy Connolly in the UK because after a man called Axel Rudabunga stabbed, I think it was a
[00:14:36] 7-year-old girl, an 8-year-old girl and a 9-year-old girl at a birthday party. There was ensuing unrest and she she tweeted something anti-migration. It was pretty inflammatory, but it would have been unambiguously legal in the United States. She said, "If this is what migration is going to do to our country." And I'm paraphrasing slightly, but I remember it pretty well. "If this is what migration means, then burn down
[00:14:57] the migrant hotels for all I care." This was a bereaved mother who'd lost a child. She saw three little girls murdered for no reason. And she reacted and then she felt bad and she deleted the tweet. That was a 30 31-month sentence. 31-month 31-month sentence in the United Kingdom. Meanwhile, you have actual pedophiles, actual child sex offenders who get minimal prison or none in the United Kingdom. And that that's
[00:15:24] led to this um epithet that you hear among UK activists, this quote-unquote two-tier policing. This activist cause that they've assembled around because they sense that if you oppose mass migration, if you make that kind of critique, you are subject to a different justice system than the kind of person who merely agitates for Sharia law in Britain or merely downloads child pornography in Britain. Yeah. So okay, so
[00:15:49] >> that Yeah, so I mean So I think um That was the gong of righteousness. >> [laughter] >> We appreciate it. And then just to add one more dimension to this. So US companies have been getting fined like crazy, right? In the UK and then the EU. And I think it's related to this issue, but can you just describe that like Yeah. Because that's where this crosses over into you know, an ally doing something that we think [snorts]
[00:16:19] is mad into directly hurting American interests, I guess, right? >> Right. So I don't believe there've been any big fines under the UK online safety act yet. >> But um its provisions take effect over time and some of those provisions are just coming online now including the ones relating to AI. Okay. And we have active litigation in American courts right now. One of the leading lawsuits involves the website 4chan which people who are very