[00:00:00] Naveen Rao, co-founder and CEO of Unconventional AI, which is an AI chip startup. >> Best known for building and [music] selling two deep tech companies. >> Naveen is kind of definitionally outlier founder. >> When I came there, we had about a $20 million business and it was, you know, 7 or 800 million [music] when I left. >> think you really understand something until you can build it. >> Just because something is tried does not
[00:00:21] mean it's wrong. [music] >> I'm the opposite of an AI doomer. I think AI is the next evolution of humanity. >> We need innovation on the hardware substrate to actually build true intelligence. >> Please welcome Naveen Rao. >> [music]
[00:00:44] >> Everyone, great to be here. Um, you know, switching gears a little bit to AI now, which you may have heard a little bit about. Um, I it's super exciting to be at this conference specifically because, as was said in the intro, I'm the opposite of a doomer. I think AI is one of the most transformational technologies that humanity's ever created and will enable us to get to that next level of evolution, which I'm here for. And uh,
[00:01:09] this is sort of the anti-doomer conference. So, what let's go. >> [laughter] >> Um, so before we get going, I'll tell you a little bit about myself. Um, you know, I it's kind of weird. I'm really right where I wanted to be my whole life. Uh, this was me at about five or six years old, something like that. We had a computer very early on, so I'll date myself, but uh, this was in 1978. We got a computer. This is probably in
[00:01:32] the early '80s. Uh, learned to program when I was a little kid. I just thought it was like a puzzle. Um, you know, learned to I became an electrical engineer, um, really because I enjoyed sci-fi and always wanted to think about how I could make a intelligent machine. And uh, you know, then after a career in uh, building computers, I went back to school and got a PhD in neuroscience. And the idea was like, let's go back
[00:01:55] back thing. How do we make computers intelligent? and fortunately the whole world kind of moved in this direction. So, you know, as a technologist it's sort of the dream right now. Um a little bit about me tech from a company entrepreneurship standpoint so like I actually founded the first AI chip company called Nirvana systems. So, um this was in 2014. If anyone remembers back then there was no AI or at least
[00:02:20] not in the common vernacular and uh it was really hard to actually convince people this is important much less to build hardware around it. Now, you heard from Jensen up here like the largest company in the world a hardware company because of AI. So, we were early on. Um I think I sold the company way too early uh to Intel but I I ran I started and ran the AI group at Intel. Um after I was done with that in 2020, I
[00:02:44] actually started thinking about the next problem which was how do we build bigger models like the large language models we talk about today and it was about how do I build the infrastructure to build those models. And so, we started platform rising GPUs and enabling it to scale and making that easy to use for other people. And after chat GPT happened in 20 2022, we were kind of the best game in town for people to start
[00:03:05] building their own models. So, took off really fast. We decided to actually join forces with data bricks. Um that was in 2023 and and uh actually that's a quarter of the total revenue of of data bricks today. So, um a lot of fun doing that whole thing with uh Ali and team at data bricks. And now I want to tell you about unconventional AI which is rethinking the foundations of how a computer works. So, there we're going back to first
[00:03:31] principles here to really trying to build a new machine. Computers have worked a certain way for a long time. We want to rethink that for the singular purpose of making something very power efficient. And the goal has been within it was initially within 5 years to get to a thousand X power efficiency. I've actually revised this to three and a half years because things have gone faster than we anticipated. We've
[00:03:52] actually solved very deep scientific problems quicker because of AI, interestingly enough. So, just a little bit how we organize. Like, we're truly a top-to-bottom company. We start with theorists. These are people with like math PhDs and um you know, theoretical neuroscience, that kind of thing. They come up with, you know, concepts that we think would uh effectively give us more power efficiency from the perspective of
[00:04:14] moving less information around. And we then translate that into models and that do real things, trained on real data, and evaluated against real criteria. So, it's kind of the rubber hitting the road of these concepts. Then eventually, we have to actually build something physical. So, these are people who architect a physical circuit, um actually design those circuits, uh model them, and see if it actually works. So, we try to connect this whole
[00:04:38] stack together. Um then eventually, we have to build a system and and a board and all that kind of stuff and build a product. So, is energy really a problem? Uh I'm not sure how much everyone in this audience has thought about this, but interestingly enough, I'll give you some some data points here. This is one company. This is just Google. I'm using Google because Google's actually talked about this publicly. Um per month, they
[00:04:59] cross 3.2 quadrillion tokens. It's a crazy number. I never even I never think in quadrillions, but that's the world we're in today. And if I just take 10 joules per token of energy, this is a actually on the lower end of uh of the energy spectrum for models, but let's just take that number and multiply it out. This is 12 gigawatts. The US puts about 40 gigawatts of energy into data centers today. And we're about
[00:05:25] half of the data center capacity of the world. And so, you know, we're under 100 gigawatts of of data center energy in the world today. 12 gigawatts is going into one company just for AI services. So, you can imagine if models get bigger, that that energy goes up. And if demand grows, which it is, that energy goes up. So, we're going to run out of energy pretty fast, in like 3 years or so is my estimate. So, really just putting it graphically,
[00:05:51] this is what we have. You know, we have this huge market that's growing exponentially. Call it a trillion-dollar market in 2030, maybe it's bigger than that. And then we have this kind of linearized energy at the bottom. And so, you've heard a lot about this today, uh but this gap is the problem. And we want to solve that gap with technology. So, um I don't know if people are aware of this, but the way we think about data
[00:06:17] centers has shifted over the last several years. It used to be about floor space. Can I get the floor space? Can I get the rack space? Then it was about networking equipment, then it became about GPUs. Today, it's about energy. First, you think about energy. I get the energy contract, and then I have to figure out how to fill it and and basically create uh um uh infrastructure out of out of GPUs and things like this. About 50% of the cost
[00:06:40] of serving a token, so every time you try something on ChatGPT, 50% of that cost is energy. The rest of it is the CAPEX of the hardware and the floor space and all that kind of stuff. So, today we sort of think about it, oops, we kind of think about it as I get I get a a power contract, and I need to monetize every watt. And simply put, our business case is pretty easy. We're going to monetize that 1,000x better than existing hardware.
[00:07:05] So, then the question becomes, okay, great, that all makes sense, but can we actually do it? How do we build a better, more efficient computer? Well, biology actually provides some proof for us here. So, the human brain, you may have heard this, runs on about 20 watts of energy. And what's even more remarkable to me is actually animal brains. So, that red number is how many neurons are in the brain. And if you
[00:07:24] kind of scale it linearly down to like a a monkey's brain, it runs on 1 watt. To put that in perspective, the cell phone in your pocket runs on about 1 watt. And other animals like, you know, um rats and bats and things like this, they run on milliwatts of energy. So, just something that's pretty relatable to everyone is a squirrel. You probably watched how accurate they can be. They jump between branches and they do it
[00:07:47] perfectly a thousand times out of a thousand. Their brain runs on eight milliwatts of energy. You could run over a hundred squirrel brains on your phone, and it it has very precise and accurate behavior. So, biology's created something quite incredible. In fact, it's the right kind of physical substrate for intelligence. So, this is a quote I love. I I don't feel like we truly understand something until we can create it. We've gotten a
[00:08:11] lot better at creating intelligent systems. However, they do it in a kind of inefficient way. What kind of inefficiency is there? Well, as I kind of hinted at the beginning, most of the energy in a computing system goes into moving information around. Just to put some numbers on it, a human cortex, the squiggly part of your brain, the outside of it, um only moves about 16 billion bits per second. That's actually kind of
[00:08:35] a small number if you think about it, cuz there's, you know, some 13 or 14 billion neurons in that cortex. Um a a GPU or, you know, a high-end computing system moves nearly 30 trillion bits in and out of memory per second. That's outside the chip. Inside the chip, it's probably, uh, you know, 10, 100x more than that. So, we're moving a lot more bits in these synthetic systems than the brain does. And that's actually what drives the
[00:09:00] energy demand. And, you know, how do we get here? You know, computers have been around for hundreds of years, actually, in some form. They were mechanical, they became analog around the turn of the century, and they became digital back in the 1930s, 1940s. So, this the operation of that computer in 1940, 1945, is actually very similar to how they operate today. There's not a huge paradigm shift. They actually have this memory on the
[00:09:23] outside, you have some kind of computing, and you move bits back and forth. That operation creates a machine that just requires a lot of movement, but it's very fast. We built computers to be fast. They were always faster than the alternative. Uh, incidentally, that computer in 1945 that was built called ENIAC was built to do artillery trajectory calculation. And it was built to do it faster than the alternative. The alternative were humans
[00:09:46] who actually did the calculations. Now, the alternative typically is some other computer. This This computer is twice the speed of that computer. That's how we sell computers. But it's ever doesn't contemplate energy efficiency. And that's what we're changing. And you know, these have been trends going on for a long time where the number of transistors kept going up, but we couldn't keep scaling the frequency.
[00:10:06] We could couldn't keep scaling uh single thread performance. And now we're actually not scaling efficiency any longer. Moore's law, if you may have heard of this, it's like making transistors smaller has largely ended. So, we're not seeing efficiency gains just for making transistors smaller. So, we need to rethink the problem a bit. So, how do we do it? Well, a good intuition is that we cut out the middle man. So, computers have been built up
[00:10:30] with these abstractions. So, I mentioned digital. Digital means one and zero. That itself is an abstraction of the physical world, right? We don't actually have systems that behave as one and zero. A transistor actually has states in the middle, but we engineer it to behave that way. And that that's an abstraction. So, we kept building these abstractions up, and eventually we started creating neural networks and
[00:10:51] learning machines on top of it. Each one of these abstractions actually is lossy. It means it's inefficient. It It doesn't contemplate all the complexity underneath it. That's why it's an abstraction. So, what we're doing is kind of simplifying this in some sense. We find an abstraction of the physics of the semiconductor and connect that to the neural network. If you think about your brain for a moment, it has a bunch of
[00:11:12] neurons in it, but there's no linear algebra. There's no uh floating point math. It's actually the physics of the neurons give rise to intelligence. We want to kind of mimic some of that uh with a semiconductor. And this is also not a new concept. There's actually computation all throughout nature. Uh birds in a flock, you may have seen things like this where you know, a bird does a simple behavior. It looks left, looks right, figures out
[00:11:37] where the next guy's going. And when they do that, they actually create these interesting flocking behaviors, this emergent behavior. And we see that with ant colonies. Ant colonies actually do intelligent things just by very simple rules. And uh this study is called dynamical systems theory. It's basically how I get these emergent properties from very simple behaviors of individual components. Our brain actually works
[00:11:59] this way as well. But we're taking these ideas and actually starting to build circuits out of them. So, let me give you an example of such a such a system. So, everyone here probably knows what a metronome is. Just, you know, when you're learning to play the piano or something like that, it's just tick-tock, tick-tock. Physical thing moving back and forth. So, this is kind of cool. If you put multiple ones of them on a rigid plank, and that plank
[00:12:21] can just roll back and forth, you'll actually see them start to synchronize. And that's just due to the physics of the system. They each push against the plank just a little bit. And even if they're off by a little bit from each other, they're all synchronized to exactly the same phase. You can actually scale this up to hundreds of of metronomes on a physical system, and they'll all synchronize. So, this is actually a form of a dynamical system
[00:12:41] that goes through, you know, some starting point of all these different phases, and always synchronizes. You can imagine a slightly more complicated version of this where maybe they don't all synchronize, maybe half of them are synchronized with each other, and another half are synchronized uh in an opposite pattern or something like this. But, the idea is that this is a physical system that that kind of uh behaves the way it does just by by the
[00:13:02] the inherent interconnection of the system itself. Uh so, we asked the question, can we actually use such a system like like that metronome system to do computation? We want to connect that to generative AI. That's what we really care about. So, we released a model we called Uno, which actually demonstrated this. It's an image generation model that's built on a set of oscillators like that. And uh we simulated it and
[00:13:26] made it open source so people can play with it. But this was a the first demonstration that I can actually scale something up, train it, and actually get useful output like image generation. And uh you know, this is kind of some of the analysis that we uh we we provided in that uh in that write-up. What you're seeing here is we call it a state space trajectory. It's basically how the system evolves in time. You can imagine if you
[00:13:50] characterize the state of the system is all of the phases of those oscillators, um and then look at how it evolves through time, and you basically condition that on the output. You say, "I want to generate an airplane or a car or a bird." It'll actually go through different state space trajectories. And so that's what we're seeing here is just an analysis of this. And these are actual images that were generated by it.
[00:14:11] Now, it turns out we actually started to build a lot of that fundamental science up over the last couple of months, and we found other things that enabled this to work even better. So, this is a concept of what we call sparsity. Sparsity means that, you know, if I have uh let's say I have a bunch of elements all connected to each other like we have on the left-hand side there. So, you know, if I have uh 10 elements and I
[00:14:32] want to connect them all to each other, I have 10 * 10 elements. I have 100 connections. That's okay, but if I have a thousand, now I have thousand * thousand, which becomes a million. So, this doesn't scale very well. We call this n² scaling. So, the more I add, it actually becomes way more hard to scale, right? So, that's not great. So, sparsity allows us to actually say, "Well, can I throw away some of those connections?"
[00:14:55] If I throw them away, now can I actually rescue the behavior of the whole system? And it turns out you can actually not only throw away some of the connections, but you can actually get better behavior out of the whole system. It actually becomes more trainable. Uh there's a lot of theoretical reasons for this, but we actually are able to do this in um in not only simulated systems, but actually real physical systems. So, it's one of
[00:15:15] these rare things where you get something that's more efficient, uh that's actually more scalable, and even gives you more performance. So, this is kind of a holy grail. It's been a It's been a problem for a long time, but we had to frame the problem the right way to actually find a solution. And so, this is actually the first time I'm talking about this publicly. This is I wanted to do it at this venue because