[00:57:50] Elon needed to do this by the way just so you know because there's an issue in Memphis where he was very clever about how he was able to get Colossus off the ground that regulatory it's not >> explain this >> when you try to power a data center typically you have what's called grid power. So you go to the utility in the area and you say, "Hey, please run me a line off of that main transmission line." And that's how you power your
[00:58:16] data center. When that runs out or is so backlogged, you have to do what's called behind the meter, which means on your own property that you own, you build something for yourself. Now, there's a problem with that. You would think, well, that's smart. Yes, but like in everything in America, there's regulation on top of regulation on top of regulation. And one of the most complicated regulatory schemes that you
[00:58:42] have to overcome is clean air permitting. So even if you say you're going to do behind the meter, then you're like, well, what can I do? Solar you can do, but it takes too much space for most places. Batteries you can do, but you need to generate the electricity in the first place. So people use that gas. So Elon cleverly bought a ton of 18-wheeler like engines basically. >> He bought the company that makes all
[00:59:09] this and provides mobile and then just and then just you know pin them to the ground and then ran it and you know those are personal use essentially and so they came under the clean air permitting requirements but then when you act as a block you could make the claim that it doesn't. Now, there are new solutions like Bloom Energy, which allows you to have huge installations and still fall under the the the personal use clean air permit. Um, and
[00:59:36] so for all of Elon's future capacity, he needed to have this in place so that he gets the the clean air permits and he's able to have a clean run of sight to continue to build domestic data centers. Anyway, >> speaking there's your little TED talk on energy, but uh we are in a bad place, guys, and it's only getting worse. Speaking of um data center sachs, everybody's favorite socialist governor Kathy Hochel in uh the great state of
[01:00:04] New York, my hometown, >> powered by fossil fuels, they drive up our carbon footprint. They occupy massive amounts of land, potentially displacing agricultural space and open spaces. The bottom line is progress shouldn't arise with a higher utility bill, deleted water supply, or noise pollution. So we have no choice but to address these challenges created by these massive facilities. That is why today I'll be signing the
[01:00:32] nation's first ever statewide moratorum on hyperscale data centers. >> Everything she's saying there is a false accusation uh on the data center. So let's just go one by one. So she's saying >> that they eat up all of the power. Well, yeah. I mean, look, if you connect to the grid without producing more power and you force data centers to compete with, you know, residential rateayers, then yeah, you could drive up utility
[01:00:58] prices. However, if you do what Chamas said and let them build behind the meter, then they bring their own power. And that's what the president has advocated for since the beginning of his administration is let the AI companies become power companies. So, that is the way to solve the energy problem or the utility problem. Then she's talking about, you know, eating up land. The reality is these data centers are a
[01:01:19] model of land use efficiency. We have a ton of land in this country. Obviously, you can find places where there is enough open land to build a data center. The economic impact and value of a data center relative to the land use again is one of the best ROIs there is. The supposed noise pollution that's largely made up that can be dealt with. You obviously don't want to put these things right next to a residential area, but
[01:01:43] create a little bit of distance and it's fine. The whole water consumption thing is largely a hoax. >> The the modern data centers uh recirculate the water, >> closed loop systems. >> Yeah. And I think there there was a study that showed that a typical data center uses the same amount of water as two and a half in-n-out burgers. So, in-n-out [laughter] burger chains. >> I mean, just go after the almonds if you're concerned about water, people,
[01:02:06] please. >> There's there Yeah. Or golf courses. I mean there's many, you know, there's many uses of water that are way more wasteful. So when you compare economic impact to all these different things, data centers are like honestly one of the best things we could be building as a nation. But >> and s there's all these taxes and incremental revenues. Did you see the article where I think it was in North Dakota or something where like teachers
[01:02:30] were getting like 30 and $40,000 bonuses from all the tax revenue that was coming in? There's all these upsides. >> That's right. They generate um a lot of tax revenue. They've created a bluecollar construction boom. It's not true that there's no jobs once they're built. That you do have ongoing jobs there. And then oh, one final thing just on the the point that Hokll was making. She said it created a lot of pollution.
[01:02:54] Natural gas, which is how most of these data centers are are powered, is one of the most clean burning sources of power that we have. >> 100%. >> These data centers have become the scapegoat for all the angst that people have about AI and it's kind of become this very clumsy way of trying to throw a wrench in the gears of innovation and just kind of slow the whole thing down. >> All I have to say is welcome to Texas.
[01:03:17] We got plenty of land here. And what's so stupid about her proposal and her talk, aside from the thing she got completely factually incorrect, is New York State is like 80% underdeveloped. Drive upstate, folks. You're thinking of New York City. Yes, New York City is packed. You go upstate, it's literally 70 to 80% of the land in New York State is undeveloped. There's so much land. It's ridiculous. New York is giant. It's
[01:03:49] giant. >> On this topic this week, I just want to give a shout out to Senator Dave McCormack. He had a defense and innovation summit in uh Carile, Pennsylvania at the Army War College which a bunch of us went to pus came gave a speech had a CEO round table a lot of defense company CEOs etc. But Chris Wright was there at Sachs and >> my guy >> he's great and Chris mentioned this in insane story. He said you know there is
[01:04:21] a lot of common funding because Dina Powell asked this question on stage and he said there's a lot of common funding patterns of these people that are protesting um the data centers and he said you could actually trace it back to the same people that in a different era were protesting fracking. And so he was saying like it's these are all just hobby horses that they use to raise money, have a job. They're like
[01:04:44] professionally paid protesters. They kind of just show up out of nowhere. I didn't realize that there was such a commonality, but they're the same people. >> The thing that I just can't understand for the life of me is why Anthropic is still funding these groups that want to put the kibos on new data center construction. There's one called public first where Daario just gave his first seven figure contribution and then a
[01:05:08] bunch of other employees at anthropic gave it and you know all these groups are trying to slow down AI development with new regulations and making it harder to build new data centers and at a certain point you just have to wonder I mean is this regulatory capture or they just kind of lost the plot because the number one thing slowing down the growth of anthropics revenue it's not demand I think it's the availability of
[01:05:31] compute in data centers. And so you're just kind of wondering like what is the point of all of this? >> It's so true. >> I was talking to someone in politics about this and the theory that they had is well the Democrats aren't going to pause the data centers forever. They're going to pause them until they feel like they're in enough control that they can dictate all the rules. And so in other words, they're calling this a moratorum.
[01:05:56] And I think it does mean that the data centers are going to stop but eventually they're going to be in a position to say okay here are our terms if you want to turn these things back on right you want to lift the moratorum and then that's when we get this you know big government democrat defined AI regime and you know that it's going to consist of a new regulatory agency and new speech controls the whole trust and safety
[01:06:21] agenda from social media will be ported over that's this was this One person I was talking to, this is what he was speculating is the real agenda is that eventually once Trump is no longer president or in some future Democratic administration, they will eventually lift the moratorum but on their terms. Now I think that's a really dangerous thing to do because you know Trump is president for another two years and then
[01:06:46] no one knows what's going to happen after that. And even if you lift the moratorum in say 2 and 1/2 or 3 years, it's going to take a couple of years for those projects to even ramp back up. So when you start talking about a moratorium on data centers, it's not like a a few month pause. It's probably a good 5 years at least before you know you can get another data center switched on in the state of New York. Just so you
[01:07:10] know how bad it's gotten, there's a curve that you can use to price data center assets. And I think you guys know this, but I have this portfolio of these assets that myself and my partner Nita have accumulated. And what's so interesting is when we talk to all of the hyperscalers about giving us a price because we're trying to figure out whether we should keep it or build it or just sell it, the most incredible thing is how extreme the
[01:07:36] price is at the front end of the curve. When you have verifiable energizable power today. And the reason is exactly everything that you're saying, Saxs, which is that when you look out into the future, you know, we've said this before, but it's about 40% of all these projects are getting mothballled and stopped. And so it's creating this massive deficit of available energy to actually drive the use of AI. So to the extent that you
[01:08:03] actually want, you know, drug discovery or you want cancer diagnosis or you want better healthcare or better legal advice, we may actually not be able to service it based on all of the demand that exists because the power isn't there. The energy isn't there. And the reason why that's not there is because folks are just kind of reflexively protesting something that they don't completely understand clearly. So I
[01:08:26] think it's a really it's a really big problem. >> I mean, we're going to have GPUs chasing energy. like where's their energy and just drive the GPUs there is what's going to happen right >> let me add one layer to it which is they're not only trying to stop data centers from being built in the US they're trying to stop data centers from being built internationally in our friends allies and partner countries and
[01:08:47] the way they're doing that is the same political forces that are stopping data centers are also behind all these new export controls on chips so they want to make it harder and harder to export chips to more and more countries including our friends and allies and so there's not going to data centers here. There's not going to be data centers in our allies. I mean, where are we going to put these things? >> I mean, those allies have unlimited
[01:09:08] energy, Middle East. Like, if you want some data centers, >> well, what's funny, Jason, is, you know, we did a bunch of Middle East data center stuff and then it's kind of stopped. Meaning, like there wasn't this growth that I thought would happen because it's a very conveniently placed geography. It's the Middle East for a reason. And so, you know, you can serve 4 billion people very quickly in under 200 milliseconds
[01:09:32] from there. >> Instead, what happened was there was this explosion in Asia and specifically in Australia, which kind of surprised me because I would have thought that those folks are a little bit even further out on the DSA, you know, far left. I thought these things would not have happened, but they they were able to get big deals done. So, in this weird way, you have all of these other countries kind of running to try to embrace this
[01:09:53] stuff quickly. They've done a decent job. They're doing stuff to sort of like displace some of the energy that that is needed in the US. But the problem is we need to have enough surplus here because this is where most of the commerce is going to get created. That really that I think should >> these are these are luxury regulations. Like you can afford if you're New York State or California to be like, you know
[01:10:16] what, we don't need this. This is a luxury for us to have an extra data center. If you're Australia, you might really need the money. If you're Texas, you might really want the money. So this is what's so crazy like virtue signaling only goes so far until your debt to GDP is high enough and or your productivity is low enough andor your foreign direct investment is low enough where you're like all right you know what screw all
[01:10:35] that we're just going to build a data center but the the other thing is if you saw what happened this week the UAE now is able to import the best-in-class leading chips and so to your point Jason I think it restarts the cycle where you have to look very carefully at the Middle East because it's a very attractive place to build these things >> and by the way you saw the you even if you just if you think about fiber and the milliseconds as
[01:10:58] you're talking about yes you can get to the four billion people but I don't know if you saw the the giant Starlink versions now they make like a really big version I think you got like one of the enterprise versions but there's like an even bigger enterprise version and they can bundle them together and you're starting to get to like 10 gig 20 gig setups so that means you could start putting these things almost anywhere
[01:11:20] >> which gets also like adds another >> can we see your clip. The thing that you were mentioning before, >> this is not to your point as prevalent in the Middle East where you have monarchies and governments that aren't ruled by democracy, but in democracies, we see this anti-data center movement taking hold. This chart is something that for me always kind of played a role in my understanding of where the incredible
[01:11:48] anti-GMO sentiment came about in the United States, >> which is great. Russia Today, this Russian media outlet launched in the US in 2010. They were kicked out of the US by Biden in 2022. And you can see that prior to Russia today existing in the US, there was no anti-GMO sentiment. GMOs were around since 1996. That's when they first had their big commercial launch in the US and were pretty prevalent for, you know,
[01:12:15] 14 plus years before everyone started to think GMOs are bad. We got to get rid of GMOs. And you could ask people a hundred different ways very pointedly and specifically about the facts on the matter and the science of GMOs and all this sort of stuff, but everyone always had a reason why they didn't want them, similar to what we're hearing now with AI and data centers. And it turns out that if you track back all of the media
[01:12:37] that had all this anti-GMO sentiment that ultimately got picked up by the mom bloggers that ultimately got put into social media feeds that ultimately everyone just accepted as truth. A lot of it originated in this Russian media push that happened around this era. And you can actually see this on the Google trend data that shows GMO and it's kind of write up. And then as Russia Today started to get cut by different media
[01:12:59] outlets and people stopped retweeting them and stopped reflecting them and stopped writing articles that followed Russia Today the anti-GMO sentiment declined in the US and I think you can see this going back decades. You know there's this effort that the KGB kind of designed during the cold war called directed measures which was really meant to try and create an influence campaign through affecting media. So putting this kind of
[01:13:26] propaganda out through foreign media, particularly targeted western democracies. And you know, you could argue that maybe you could trace back what happened in Germany with nuclear energy as being kind of similarly originated. But there have been a series of these pushes that seem nonsensical if you're fairly rational and can have an actually objective debate about the scientific merit, the economic merit, the benefits of these technologies. But
[01:13:50] for some reason, what we call the activist community become heightened to them. Say that we've got to get rid of them. And everyone's got these different unfounded, scientifically unfounded reasons why they want to get rid of them. And you're like, wait a second, how did we end up in this place that we're literally handicapping ourselves. And I think we're seeing something similar happening with data centers in
[01:14:09] the US today. The funding of the NOS's as they're being called, the media that's supporting this, the retweeting of the media. And then you asked people, there was a poll that came out today, something north of 50% of Americans believe that data centers increase the cost of water and electricity. Even if the data center is fully recycling the water and they're producing their own electricity, there's still this kind of