[00:15:54] just how open they are to having companies set up shop there and there's a bit of a competition is there not between you know DOA Dubai Abu Dhabi Riyad Bahrain there's a really great competition that's emerging for talent and you've got the entire country all the nationals very engaged in starting companies yeah So um I mean this is such an important point because I think this is um a key fact that people don't realize
[00:16:23] yet. I didn't Yeah. Yeah. The if you look at it, you know, 30 years ago, the investment and the strategy for Saudi Arabia to send many of their citizens abroad across the world to pursue degrees is really paying off um you know in a in a really large way. Um again back into the example I mentioned about my um my models team I have 40 PhD students uh not students 40 PhD scientists today in my team I sometimes honestly when I sit with them
[00:16:54] I said I'm really maybe I don't have enough credentials to sit with you guys in the room but they're graduated from uh yes some are for PhD from Stanford MIT Harvard Oxford you know from anywhere that you want they're really have obtained now the foundation knowledge to really take to that next step. Now, when you talk about competition, I mean, the beauty when they graduated, was it that they were thinking about staying in the US,
[00:17:23] getting an OPT, staying, or was it this pull to go back and say, "Okay, we're now trained. Let's go back and help our mother country." What What is the motivation of this? I think there's a couple things that happened. I mean, I I mean, this is my own view and I talked to my colleagues in Saudi Arabia. I really think that they had a sense of responsibility to take in the build process of what tomorrow is going to look like. Uh I
[00:17:47] would have done the same if I was in their shoes. I would have went back and really helped into this uh this build process. So um they learned a lot and mostly from I would say United States and uh UK and now they all came back looking at the opportunity because the inflection point has happened. If you look at the fast-paced transformation, it's an opportunity I don't think they want to miss. It's really changing
[00:18:11] No text rapidly. How much of that maybe is a desire to work in the era of MBS and maybe you can use that as a jumping off point to tell us what is it like to work with this person that's young and beloved? So, so a couple of things. I mean, look, I I'll tell you my uh my honest opinion. I mean first of all the first meeting that we had with him um key observation and takeaway his vision blew my mind. I don't think I have seen someone with
[00:18:37] such a bold vision towards what the future looks like. His responsibility to the citizens of Saudi and the uh diversification and the transformation initiatives that are happening is second to none. It's really really incredible. Actually I was delayed yesterday. I was supposed to be here, but he the man doesn't sleep really. I mean, he's he's on all the time uh thinking about initiatives that needs to be done and fasttracking them.
[00:19:06] So, um everybody now is really rallied. If you go into Saudi Arabia today, one thing that is surprising, you take a taxi cab or you go to a hotel or you talk to a government official, everybody is intertwined with the vision 2030 mission. everybody. So this is something that rallied the society around an idea and the idea has incredible merits especially I would tell you and is it both the old and the young it's I mean what I'm seeing now across
[00:19:36] the board even when I talk to the older generation or the younger generation this mentality shift transformation has happened now I'm I'm not representing everybody I'm telling you the segments I'm interacting with um I I see nothing but optimism but you guys know very well better than me. This is such a key point. That was what I took away from when I started spending time there over 3 years. I saw the change every year. The enthusiasm level
[00:20:02] reminded me of New York and San Francisco in the '9s, early 2000s. The opportunity to build anything. The culture was on fire. You've got movies and cinemas coming back and and all this great stuff happening. And they're so engaged and they want to learn how to build businesses. And they've got this real, you know, the 2030 mark has inspired everybody to think, well, what can what's possible? We we have this
[00:20:26] incredible energy business. Sure. But as they explained it to me, we can take that energy business and over the next 5, 10, 20 years, we can transform this entire region and be a global leader. And it's really inspiring. And and uh to add to your point, look back into your question about competition. You know, this is really interesting. You see um there's a lot I have learned and I owe a lot for what I learned in the US. Quite a bit a lot. Um
[00:20:53] I learned innovation here. When I moved to India, I learned scale. When I moved to Japan, I learned precision and quality. You come to Saudi Arabia and I'm learning optimism and vision truly. And um hopeful, you know, I I find it to be really remarkable. I mean, that's I'm I'm living there almost full-time. Um and what I have done if you come to humane office today in my opinion it is no different than a Silicon Valley office
[00:21:21] not at all. Oh yeah it. So I encourage you come visit see how you mean from the basics of the basics how the building layout is how the open office design is to remove barriers and thoughts mentalities and I want now really my team has to become product creator not just a reseller. So that's No text very important. Tark, as you are building your infrastructure, there's supply chain and strategic partnerships and relationships that I'm sure emerge
[00:21:50] here in the United States, but also in China. And Saudi Arabia seems to be in this really kind of interesting position as a large energy supplier, as a large partner in capital and now in building that could create tension between the rivalry, the global rivalry between the US and China. How do you think about managing each of those two markets and how you establish relationships and where do you align yourself? So if you
[00:22:12] if you see um how humane was launched and and I wish I could take a small credit for this but u I've asked for one thing before President Trump came to visit um Saudi Arabia we should you know please launch the company 3 p.m. core because we wanted to see ensure that the alignment that we are going after we're going after really where the innovation is the talent that exists the infrastructure that exists and let's be
[00:22:39] really realistic and truthful today the US is leading especially on the semiconductor side and we don't want to miss this opportunity so if you see our partnership that we have done with AMD with um a startup called Grock uh Nvidia Qualcomm it shows you clearly our commitment to this relationship and partnership and it's really deep not only on the silicon side but the same thing you're going to hear very soon on
[00:23:05] the AI and the software application and that's why humane to succeed really needs deeper engagement relationship I spend a lot of time with um with startups in the US and um you know and as long as to be very honest with you the hope and the optimism I have and and David and the team has been doing really a great job with this is our ability to say we understand very very well the concerns that one might have. But if you
[00:23:34] see about my partners that we have selected from software layer in the cloud to manage tenant management to the security on the data center to make sure that these servers are secured. We will do everything that is required with the optimism that humane will be thought through as a trusted supplier for um for the US. David Saxs, how important is the No text American and the kingdom's relationship globally and for humanity in terms of
[00:24:01] the the president's uh agenda and his prioritization? Well, it's been a critical relationship for the US and for Saudi Arabia since I think 1945, if not before when uh the the founder of Saudi Arabia, the king Iban Sad met with uh our president, our king so to speak, FDR on a battleship and they hammered out the foundation of the modern world which is the US would provide security for the region in exchange for the steady flow
[00:24:32] of crude and that you know that was I FDR did that on his way back from Yalta and people don't know as much about that as they do the Yaltta meeting but that was a very important understanding and then the relationship's evolved over the last 80 years but what I can tell you we I went with the president on the trip in May to the Middle East and number one like you said the business culture in Saudi Arabia is very Americanized many
[00:24:54] of the the the Saudi elite have studied in the US second they want to have a good relationship and a and a partnership with the United States there's nothing competitive at all all about that relationship. And third, when it comes to high-tech and AI, they want to be part of our technology ecosystem. When I got back to Washington, I was really surprised at how controversial it was that we wanted to do business with
[00:25:17] the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia in particular. The way I see it is very simple. Saudi Arabia is going to have data centers. Of course, uh, every sovereign country that can afford them is going to have data centers. Is that going to be American technology or Chinese technology? It's basically going to be our uh companies or it's going to be Huawei. It's binary. It's binary. And why would we want to push any country into the arms of
[00:25:42] Huawei? Especially when their preference is to work with America. Well, I think it's especially for two reasons. One is the proximity that that region has to 4 billion people. Because if you think about building data centers, ultimately inferences, there's a certain window of time and you have to be under several hundred milliseconds. But if you do that and you draw that radius, you're counting half the world's population. We
[00:26:05] we can't strategically ignore that. Otherwise, you'll be forced to do it with somebody else. We'll let talk in a second, but just I think that these restrictions on the region, they were placed in October of 2023. And at the time by previous administration, at the time that happened, it was justified on the grounds that the US was the only game in town. We were the only ones who could really make advanced semiconductors. So
[00:26:27] therefore, we could impose whatever restrictions we wanted. Nobody would have a choice. But since then, if you're reading the headlines over the past few months, it's all been about Huawei, Cambercon, uh, SMIC. China is rapidly advancing. Um, Dylan Patel from, um, semi analysis just had a report. By next year, China is going to be making millions of chips. Admittedly, they're not as good as American chips. But if we
[00:26:51] deny the rest of the world the ability to participate in the American tech stack, then they will participate in the Chinese tech stack. And I think the question of what what we sell to China will always be a complicated question for obvious reasons. But when it comes to the Middle East and the rest of the world, I think it should be an easy question that as long as these countries are abiding by our security requirements
[00:27:11] and they want to be partners and allies of the United States, we should allow them into the American tech ecosystem because otherwise we're just creating a Huawei belt and road. Maybe uh one one uh important thing. Um we got approval last year and and this is a really really important case study for you. When we looked at our business model, actually the number we use is exactly 4.4 billion. 4.4. Sure. We could reach within the tolerance of
[00:27:39] fiber latency that inferencing would become really still um ultra responsive. Um we got approval after a few months on um a startup in the US and this is a classic example. I mean you could really validate what I'm going to tell you now. We supported this US startup. look at where they where they are now today and what their valuation post engagement with us. So we picked um at that time for inferencing Grock because I thought
[00:28:05] it was really an interesting startup that could help us democratize the cost of inferencing out of um the data center that we have deployed this in. Um we have about 19,000 uh of of their chips deployed overnight. 130 countries are using now this inferencing cluster. 5% of the traffic from Saudi, the rest is from abroad. Why? Because we're able to offer differentiated inferencing costs and we offer to the world. Now keep in mind
[00:28:35] what we also did for security guarantees. We said Grock cloud, you manage this. So now I don't have to worry about KYC requirement. You follow US rules. I what I care about is I have revenue that I participate in. And it was really a win-win for both of us. And I hope we'll repeat the same thing with uh with the deployment that we're doing with Nvidia and uh AMD and then something really really exciting that we're going to do with Qualcomm on
[00:29:02] the edge as well. Thank you so much for joining us and see you at Mamadori. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you. I got a great schwarma place for us. Thank you. We're in town.