[00:00:00] No text I believe connectivity is a human right. I felt that this is a great opportunity to really build and enable a country like Saudi Arabia that has a incredible potential and capability to really build a digital champion and a digital hub for the region. This is the first time I landed in a place where I feel I'm home. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Humane's Tar Amin. I did. Good to see you. So, No text
[00:00:40] I've been spending a lot more time in the Middle East in the region. It's changing so dramatically year after year. Um, and I'm going to be, I announced on the podcast two weeks ago, I'll be doing Foundry University in Riyad, November 3rd, 4th, and 5th. And I'm really excited to partner with such a dynamic country. Maybe you could fill us in on what's changed over the last 5 years in the region. Well, thank you very much. First of all,
[00:01:08] I must say it's the first time I did an event that's only 45 minutes away from my home. Um my flight from Riad uh obviously was 23 hours but uh just to give you some context um I was born in Aman Jordan before coming to the US to finish my studies and um you know progress in my life and my career. Um, so I moved from Tokyo to Saudi Arabia, but this is the first time I ever worked in the region. And um, I didn't know
[00:01:36] what to expect, you know. Um, you know, sometimes it def it depends on your perspective on how you look at the world. You know, I wanted to really discover and understand everything I used to hear under the massive opportunity of transformation and the diversification on the economy. You know my first observation is really started with discovery of how amazing the people were in terms of hospitality, welcom um I really felt like I'm back
[00:02:05] home. It's it felt very very different feeling to me. The second thing the population is awfully young and hungry and hungry for new things and new advancements. So um to me it was really a pleasant surprise because what I was really worried about and what everybody keeps talking about um maybe TK have done great things in his life talent and opportunity may be a big challenge in in his new venture and it was remarkable
[00:02:34] you know um in every aspect whether you look at at the government side in terms of society the transformation it has changed dramatically it's really really a u an area that I feel and the opportunity is remarkable and and the embracement of the society towards looking at the future in which digital and AI is fundamental to their transformation. Tara, can you maybe explain what humane is and how it came to be because it's it
[00:03:01] was sort of an evolution, right? Yeah, I mean it's it's uh you know for for you to know um I'll tell you we take things for granted in the US to a certain extent. Let's assume you're a startup here and you want to access compute. It's as simple as obviously going to hyperscaler and within 30 seconds you're ready to go. So um uh this story is fascinating because my first discovery let's say in the role I was in at the time I was hired um uh to
[00:03:29] really run a subsidiary of Aramco uh a new company that was intended to diversify out of its core business in which digital AI was a really core component of it. One of the biggest surprises I had is lack of AI infrastructure. I mean I did not know that um the ability for startups companies to access AI infrastructure is a challenge. I mean it took look how large Aramco is took them 9 months from the process of
[00:04:00] purchase order export control process deployment installation. That means we have hindered a company to really achieve its objectives um by 9 months. So that was the first opportunity that I saw that we need to address in the country. I tell you the story because this is how the humane story started. So I started meeting with several ministers in the country. I told them I see nothing but opportunity. I see something
[00:04:25] that the country could really do and participate at a global space. I think we have an abundance of land, an abundance of power, amazing connectivity um and an opportunity to really participate in the digital infrastructure. So um uh last year during my birthday, I get a call and um uh it was like really a strange number. So I answered it. It says um it was from the royal court and um it said uh his royal highness wants
[00:04:57] to meet with you. I said okay what did I do? You know it was a uh so anyway I we all came in I said what's the topic? The topic was uh AI brainstorming and um this was the first time I had the opportunity to meet his royal highness and uh Muhammad bin Salam. Yeah. And let me tell you it was not about brainstorming. It was about really addressing what the country needs to do to accelerate to address some of the um
[00:05:28] fragmentation that exist. And the idea and the concept of humane is in order for us to really accelerate our development, let us now bring um uh public and private entity combines and take AI investments, projects, initiatives and put them one under one umbrella company that is really focused on the entire AI total value chain. So um honestly in that meeting I I could tell you it took about 10 minutes to come to realization that the opportunity
[00:05:59] is massive. But we need to really unite the fragmented effort and put our energy to address the basics and and you were given a pretty large balance sheet to do this with. Yeah. I mean look um I mean to to start with as you know uh building infrastructure is not necessarily uh a small task. So uh to do this and to participate and to make an impact you need to be very well funded. So um uh you know even though we call humane as a
[00:06:29] startup but it's actually a very wellunded startup between our data center segment our models team applications um and also our ventures that we will soon have in the United States is u you know is a very wellunded company that I'm feeling really comfortable about the opportunities that we could capture between capital people talent and partnerships. So should we think about this as there's you know we live in a world as you said when when
[00:06:55] you're back home here in the US there's AWS there's GCP there's you know Azure it's just simple straightforward but the rest of the world a little bit more complicated do you see humane being that competitive alternative for the rest of the world is that how it starts or well I think I think look at it in certain areas we partner really well and all of them are colleagues and friends I mean I've I've known the CEOs of these
[00:07:21] companies really well through my tenure in Japan and India. But I will tell you I think many companies do not see the Middle East the way I see it today and they don't understand the requirements and the needs of what we have to do to build the depth and the talent. So I see in certain areas great partnerships and in certain other areas I think that we will be a compelling alternative but it doesn't mean that we don't partner. So
[00:07:48] um uh you know certainly when you see now the partnerships that we announced with uh the likes of AWS and Google uh clearly I want to see the companies invest in addressing the lack of infrastructure that I saw. So a portion of what we do today will be built on things with our own technology and a portion will be done also with partnerships with the hyperscalers No text and what uh give us the lay of the land
[00:08:14] from the foundational model side the opensis the anthropics the gros how is that moving how do you work with them how do you make sure that you know everybody can get access to the latest models so so a couple of things we have done and look um for people in this audience that have participated on the build a foundation model you It's not trivial and it's not easy. One of the acquisitions that has happened in humane
[00:08:39] and this is where I was really really surprised to see the depth of science team I have today in humane. I mean this is the first comment I get in my social post to say yes you have capital but there's no people no talent. So we ended up building a foundation model and I'll tell you the reason we did this. We built it from the scratch. It was not distilled of any open- source tool. Well, for two reasons. I just wanted to
[00:09:04] see I mean a let's venture into this to understand the depth and the capability of the organization. Second thing when it comes to culture, language and biases you know I felt that it's important for us to really participate in this arena. So um so we launched in uh Saudi Arabia what we call humane chat. I just wanted to see the reaction from uh the people that uses this model and the whole objective of it. Arabic first preference
[00:09:33] is the way we train this model, not English first preference. And um I'm sorry, just on that, you see huge differences in how the foundational models process and digest data. I think for us and any model um that is used today um quality of data is always much better than I think just feeding at quantity of data. Our model today has a proprietary set of data in Arabic language that you cannot find on the public internet. So
[00:10:03] we had a proprietary data set that was important and obviously within the Arabic language the government today uses all its correspondence, transactions, translations is in Arabic. So the preference of training first in Arabic is very different than you starting in English and then you add to it the Arabic components. Um, so we built that, we launched it, it actually now became the number one uh app in the app store in in the country. Um, it
[00:10:29] rallied really an important thing for us and and I'm I want to be really specific that we didn't do this to say we're better than OpenAI or we're better than X or better than that. It was important for us to train the team on understanding how to build the entire stack. It's really really critical and I and I would tell you there's nothing else I would do different than the last nine months in building this foundation
[00:10:55] model. We have um great partnerships today with um uh you know discussions with OpenAI uh Anthropic we use a lot for our AI coding tool. So I I see this is not an option of use this or that. I think we are trying to formulate a strategy on the model but I will tell you where we differentiate hugely differentiate. I think we have found the answer that I hear everybody talking about. I am I am a huge believer that AI
[00:11:24] is not into a bubble and the reason I believe in this I think we are one of the few companies that have found true value realization and this is really a mind-blowing story. Um when I took on the s role for him so I had an option to say how do you run a large enterprise do you run it the same old way where you have legacy systems in play you have hundreds of IT tools that do the job for finance legal HR cyber security or you
[00:11:52] do something different what we have differentiated on while I'm excited about the model is what we build on top of the model so um we will launch in October this year a platform we call humane one it is truly the AI oper operating system for the enterprise. Imagine the um the era I believe Windows was embedded in 1981. We all got taught that you use icons on the desktop. If you want to take a vacation, you go to
[00:12:18] success factor or other HR tool. If you want finance, go to Oracle, SAP. If you want something else, there's another tool, another application, another icon. Well, now we change this enterprise world. We're really intent driven system, multi- aent orchestration system and its impact is unreal. what has happened in driving true value realization. Um, at least in my company I could tell you it is remarkable the efficiencies
[00:12:45] now that we have derived out of changing these legacy systems and maybe the biggest challenge that I had had nothing to do with the technology nothing and this is maybe my own personal opinion about the struggles that companies going to go through as they embrace AI into their operation. And it's the mindset, mentality, culture, organization. It's underestimated effort. So, um, so yeah, between the model of what we build, but
[00:13:11] I I'm more excited about what we have on top of the model. Let me ask you a point of question. No text You're in Saudi, there's an enormous amount of energy, almost a surfate of energy. Do you have this unfair advantage where if you need a vast amount of energy to throw at a compute problem, do you effectively get it for free or do you have to pay for it as well? No, of course not. I mean, look, um, uh, even though it might seem like I I wish I
[00:13:36] could get it for free. I that would that would change my business model dramatically. Um, so the when I took this role, I think one of the key things I said, look, what can we really compete and what can we do to offer to the world something that the world desperately needs today. I think everybody in this room maybe realize we are really just at the beginning of what I would call the AI inferencing world. While the model training will continue
[00:14:05] to evolve, but now as we move into accelerated compute, I think the demand is going to become much larger than it exists today. So how do we and and what's the challenge? The challenge is really simple power. You know, how do you really find power? So that's where I think Saudi Arabia has a big role to uh to participate. And I was bullish enough to tell the world I said outside of the United States, outside of China, I
[00:14:29] really think Saudi Arabia has a good shot to be the third largest country in infrastructure. So um we have to go through processes to secure power from the uh ministry of energy through the local electric company. I am treated as fairly as any other entity that comes to the country. my rates, my tariff is equivalent to what Google would get, to what AWS get. But however, the energy generation that exists in Saudi Arabia
[00:14:57] is just remarkable. I mean, I think um what I told many people um maybe Saudi Arabia today led the world in energy exports via oil. we should look at an opportunity to lead the world through energy exports via tokens, you know, and but that's really a a key area that I think we could differentiate is the energy infrastructure. Let's talk a little bit about the talent pool there. The this was shocking to me when I got there, but so many of the uh
[00:15:24] young people even up to Gen X, our generation, uh have been educated in the west. In fact, the woman who we are in partnership with uh with Sonabble um has a MBA from Stanford and Oxford and all these incredible schools and they've all come back after these incredible scholarships that are given uh by the country. talk about the talent that has come back to Saudi and the application level level and Golden Visas as well
[00:15:54] just how open they are to having companies set up shop there and there's a bit of a competition is there not between you know DOA Dubai Abu Dhabi Riyad Bahrain there's a really great competition that's emerging for talent and you've got the entire country all the nationals very engaged in starting companies yeah So um I mean this is such an important point because I think this is um a key fact that people don't realize
[00:16:23] yet. I didn't Yeah. Yeah. The if you look at it, you know, 30 years ago, the investment and the strategy for Saudi Arabia to send many of their citizens abroad across the world to pursue degrees is really paying off um you know in a in a really large way. Um again back into the example I mentioned about my um my models team I have 40 PhD students uh not students 40 PhD scientists today in my team I sometimes honestly when I sit with them
[00:16:54] I said I'm really maybe I don't have enough credentials to sit with you guys in the room but they're graduated from uh yes some are for PhD from Stanford MIT Harvard Oxford you know from anywhere that you want they're really have obtained now the foundation knowledge to really take to that next step. Now, when you talk about competition, I mean, the beauty when they graduated, was it that they were thinking about staying in the US,
[00:17:23] getting an OPT, staying, or was it this pull to go back and say, "Okay, we're now trained. Let's go back and help our mother country." What What is the motivation of this? I think there's a couple things that happened. I mean, I I mean, this is my own view and I talked to my colleagues in Saudi Arabia. I really think that they had a sense of responsibility to take in the build process of what tomorrow is going to look like. Uh I
[00:17:47] would have done the same if I was in their shoes. I would have went back and really helped into this uh this build process. So um they learned a lot and mostly from I would say United States and uh UK and now they all came back looking at the opportunity because the inflection point has happened. If you look at the fast-paced transformation, it's an opportunity I don't think they want to miss. It's really changing
[00:18:11] No text rapidly. How much of that maybe is a desire to work in the era of MBS and maybe you can use that as a jumping off point to tell us what is it like to work with this person that's young and beloved? So, so a couple of things. I mean, look, I I'll tell you my uh my honest opinion. I mean first of all the first meeting that we had with him um key observation and takeaway his vision blew my mind. I don't think I have seen someone with