[00:52:45] tenth nuclear power in Iran. We did. And we had the latest two, if I'm correct, you'll correct me cuz you're the expert, Pakistan and North Korea, and we had that one doctor Khan, I believe his name was from Pakistan, who was trying to spread and sell these. So, Absolutely. Did we make a critical error, we being the West, even the East, humanity, the leadership, of letting Pakistan and North Korea into this club?
[00:53:11] Well, I mean, not not into the club, but allowing them to get nuclear weapons, which is right. The Israelis have had a different idea. Uh this goes back uh uh uh to the original attack on Iraq, on Osirak. Uh they got call it affirmative non-proliferation. So, they say, "We're not allowing nuclear weapons in our neighborhood." And they've uh destroyed the nuclear weapon project in Iraq. They destroyed the nuclear weapon
[00:53:44] activity in Syria when the North Koreans were building a plant there half dozen years ago. And now they've been the leaders in the destruction of the Iranian nuclear program, which we participated in. I, however, I'm uncomfortable about the wars and even in Iran. I had to cheer for this because I fear additional nuclear weapon states. And I wish that we had managed somehow, let's say, the North Korean case. I've even said this to Chinese
[00:54:16] officials. I said, "You know, we and you made a terrible mistake. Maybe we made a bigger mistake to let North Korea get nuclear weapons. But what we should have said to you is, 'Hey, we have an idea. Nuclear weapons are either good for North Korea and South Korea or they're good for neither of them. Your choice.' And that would have been hardball, but I I think uh uh the idea of having Kim Jong-un have now more than 100 nuclear warheads
[00:54:52] and missiles that can reach the American homeland is crazy. I mean, here we're talking about Iran and what it might be. Excuse me. It takes uh 20 minutes longer from Korea to get to Boston than from Iran or maybe 25 minutes. So, I I think that uh that's a useful perspective to remind us that we let this thing happen. It's a ticking bomb as far as I'm concerned. If you ask me what to do about it, I I makes me you know
[00:55:28] cry because Trump in the first administration focused on this problem very very seriously and did everything that he thought he could. And I thought it was a good a good effort, even though it was not successful. But the 20 other ways we've tried to deal with that problem were all equally unsuccessful. >> How does China feel about nuclear proliferation and North Korea having these bombs? Well, I think they feel a
[00:55:54] little ashamed at least about what happened in North Korea and kind of think, "Well, that wasn't really our problem." But now, uh when you say, "Well, if this keeps if things on the current path, well, maybe South Korea or Japan will have nuclear arsenals in their backyard." They think that's a terrible idea. And we would be not very enthusiastic about a Venezuelan or Canadian nuclear bomb, yeah. So, Dr. Allison, just to kind of wrap our tour
[00:56:24] of the world here, come back to the United States. Since we last spoke, there have been a number of mayors elected in this country that are self-declared socialists or Democratic Socialists of America, DSA, and there's a rising populist movement in the United States that seems to be manifesting in many cases candidates that look and act like true deep socialists and want to enact socialist policies. What is the
[00:56:53] risk to the United States if this continues to go the way it's going? And what is the risk to the United States, do you think, in 2028 if we have a Democrat controlled House and Senate and a very populist Democrat candidate that looks like a DSA member? Where does this take us? Well, I can't good for you all for thinking of uncomfortable radical questions, but real. Uh So, if you look at the numbers, I have I I've been looking at them
[00:57:26] lately. They're hard to believe in terms of the split between wealthy and poor or uh rich and poor. If you look at the uh who's benefited for the last generation in terms of the uh 0.01%, the 1%, the 10%, the 20%, or that's us and all the people that we know, virtually. And therefore, when we say the market is, you know, third year in a in a in a bull market, and my goodness, here it's up 15 or 16% or this 80% or
[00:58:02] 70% of people, this is not part of their lives. And when I look at the numbers about both what I think the facts are, and then even more people's perception, uh uh it's just not stable in a democracy if everybody gets a vote. And if uh uh the top 10 or 20% are taking 80% or 70% of the pie, that's not stable and sustainable, I think. And it's the political invitation for a populist and demographic demagogic uh uh just I mean, you don't even have
[00:58:40] to be a demagogue to say, "That's not fair. That's not reasonable." Uh So, I think that it's not this I mean, this is beyond my I mean, I I I can hardly deal with the problems I I focus on. This one is one that I look over my shoulder and think, "Gee, wait a minute. This person this can't be true." But then, whenever I've been looking into the numbers lately, they look as bad as they appear. And then, this is extremely dangerous. And I would
[00:59:09] say, "Yes." And so, I haven't heard people talking about plausible ways in which uh you know, this could be addressed. And I but I think it's a it's a it's an invitation, you know, for some more radical ideas. And uh So, while I like very much the Trump uh accounts for kids to give them some stake, I think that's a that's a fantastic thing. I I I could probably be persuaded that people even at my level of income
[00:59:49] should pay another 10% of taxes or whatever for uh for some more adjustment. I think the kind of adjustments that are basically putting people on the dole uh or uh support for non-productive or semi-productive activity makes me very uncomfortable. Uh I mean, unless they're lame or you know, ill or or aging. >> UBI proposals? Uh people getting a universal basic income that that takes motivation out of >> me less I I I like incentive. I mean, I
[01:00:26] think the the stuff of America has been the opportunity for people to to be incentivized to invent, create, and create wealth that's benefits for everybody. But, if the if the jam is not getting spread to 70% of the people, that's not a sustainable political situation. And And I think I mean, I thought it was in the in the New York campaign, we got to see some preview of a bit of this. And in the primaries, you're seeing
[01:00:58] people going into this space. I haven't seen anybody with a with a coherent program yet. But, I think for serious people thinking about what's good for the country, that's a it's a good one to worry about. Well, it seems Fred Berg that there's there's a couple of proposals here. Minimum wage, maybe some type of a wealth tax. There are things that people are talking about. We may not all agree with them. And they may be hard to execute, but one
[01:01:25] of them is for the people at the top. I think you would agree, uh Professor Allison, the people at the top have the most to lose here. And they should be thinking about it and and maybe there's generosity in you know, maybe giving away wealth in a more thoughtful way because there's so much wealth in this top 1% 10% that they can't possibly spend. And so this might be something that that group of people should be thinking a a little bit more
[01:01:50] about. In the State of the Union, Trump called out, you know, Dell and couple of other people for having stepped up and say, "Okay, I'm you know, I'm going all in on this." I would say there's something quite Well, that certainly got my attention and made me think maybe I should be doing something different. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Well, Professor Allison, you know, they they say that you can measure a man's knowledge and thoughtfulness by his
[01:02:17] humility. I will say you have extraordinary depth and you've thought so deeply about so many of these issues that this world is facing right now. And yet you act with such humility and grace when you speak about them. I want to thank you for that. I want to thank you for taking the time to be with us today. Really appreciate it and look forward to doing it again in person soon. Yeah, thank you so much on behalf
[01:02:39] of the audience and just on a personal basis. This is such a delight and privilege to be able to do with this with you every year or two and man, I hope we can just do it every year because it's the highlight of my year when we get to talk. And excuse me, it's an honor for me. Thank you so much and thank you for what y'all are doing and thanks for thinking of such hard questions out here. It's taking me home
[01:02:59] tonight to think about socialism. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'm going all in.
[01:03:20] >> [music] >> I'm going all in.