[00:00:00] Welcome to another episode of the All In interview. I'm really excited to be joined by back to All In, Harvard Professor Graham Allison. Professor Allison, welcome back to All In. Thanks for having me. We last had you at the summit in Los Angeles, so it's great to have a conversation. A lot's happened since we last got together. For the audience, Graham Allison's the founding dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. He's advised
[00:00:25] every Secretary of Defense since Kissinger. He's helped dismantle 12,000 Soviet nuclear weapons, and his book Destined for War remains the definitive framework for understanding the US-China relationship. I think it's worth kind of bringing forward some of the things that have happened in the world since we last met. >> I'm going all in.
[00:00:51] If you were building a global financial system from first principles today, you wouldn't build it on 50-year-old legacy rails. You'd build Airwallex. It's the single platform for global accounts, cards, and payments that treats the entire world like a local market. Stop paying the legacy tax and start building the future at airwallex.com/allin. Airwallex, build the future. >> [music] >> Let's start with Iran. The US and Israel
[00:01:17] are in the middle of an attack on Iran, and the supreme leader is dead, but the regime is still holding on to power. Where do you think this conflict will take us, and are we sleepwalking into World War III? Well, thank you again for having me back. I feel you have a great podcast. I enjoyed the summit, and I'm sorry we're not there in person to to catch up, but I think >> Yeah. about Iran, I have much to say, so this could be a
[00:01:44] long lecture. Let me just do four or five quick points. First point, most important point, is that there's more questions than answers. So, there's a huge level of uncertainty currently about what's happening and about what's likely to happen. Part of this is Clausewitz's famous fog of war, but this is a fog of war that's actually increased because we got two big fog machines uh adding to the confusion, uh namely Trump and the administration
[00:02:16] on the one hand and Bibi on the other. And then we got all the chattering us around it. So, I would say why did Trump decide to go to war now? And there's six different reasons he and the administration have given, and each one they back around. What's the objective? Uh there's five different objectives, back and around. And when is this war going to end? I don't know. A day, a week, a month? Who knows? So, it's very uncomfortable
[00:02:46] to recognize how uncertain things are. And most of the conversation about it tries to make it more confident. But I think the place to start is there's a huge amount of uncertainty. Having said that, I'll still give you my prejudices about a few of the points. Point two, this has been an an extraordinary uh demonstration of supreme military power and supreme intelligence power. US military and the intelligence community
[00:03:14] and the Israeli counterparts have been way, way, way off the charts. And I think this should make all Americans uh proud of what's been built over this decade over two decades of investment, but especially in the past decade. Uh third point, there's no tears to be shed for Khamenei and the Islamic Republic regime. It's an evil leader, an evil regime. Uh there's no bad thing that could happen to them that we shouldn't be cheering over that. Uh
[00:03:44] next point though, breaking something's a lot easier than building something. And destroying targets is something that our military knows very well how to do. Building a new regime, regime change, is something that we know historically doesn't work very well, at least in Iraq and Afghanistan. We had every word said that's been said in this case. And we then went in all in and spent more than a billion dollars and many, many thousands of American
[00:04:19] lives. And when we went through Afghanistan, the Taliban were ruling. When we left Afghanistan, the Taliban were ruling. So, I would say unfortunately, it's against a backdrop that's hard. The next point, slightly more controversial, but I think this is Bibi's war. If you're reader or if you listen to this and remember Moby Dick, they should go look at it again. Ahab had this fixation, obsession with the white whale
[00:04:47] and tried to find a way to kill the white whale whenever he could. For the last two decades, that's been Bibi's number one, number two, number three agenda. He's tried to sell that war to Obama, to Trump one, to Biden. And how he succeeded in mesmerizing Trump, who might thought had his number, I'm surprised. So, I'm pro-Israel but anti-Bibi in this respect. And I think that's I understand he's a brilliant politically, but I don't think this
[00:05:19] uh uh the arguments that were made that that Trump has actually repeated, that Iran was about to attack us, I see no evidence for that. That Iran was about to get a nuclear weapon, I see no evidence for that. That Iran was building an ICBM that was going to attack the US, I see no evidence for that. There's many, many bad things about the Iranian regime, but not most of the claims that that were made. So, I I look this and I hope it turns out
[00:05:50] well, but I remember that in wars very frequently it's easy to get in and it's quite difficult to get out. Let me double click on that point. You mentioned there's multiple reasons that the administration has messaged for doing this, multiple views on what success looks like, multiple timelines on ending it, and that this is Bibi's war. How do you think Trump was motivated to do this? What is the real motivation? And I will
[00:06:18] ask this in the context of the big delegation and visit to China coming up next month. Was Trump motivated fundamentally to create leverage with China and use this as a tool to try and maximize his negotiating leverage going into the Chinese negotiations? That's a great question and I wish that the answer was this was all part of a grand strategy. That would make me feel uh hugely better. But uh I tried I do Trumpology and I was
[00:06:47] actually having dinner last night with Bill O'Reilly, a former student, who I think is one of the better Trumpologists who are trying to interpret and we were going back and forth through this. It's easy enough to see why the window, tactically, the window in which this attack occurred was chosen because here you got 40 you got the supreme leader and 40 of the other leaders of Iran out in public. So, that's an opportunity as
[00:07:12] a target. And then the best opportunity that's come along. The question is why would you be attacking them? And especially Trump given his uh campaign and his previous views about not repeating the mistakes of the people that took us into endless winless wars. And I think it's I mean I I think Bibi is a magician. I think his single-mindedness uh is impressive. I think his agility in making arguments and developing arguments is impressive.
[00:07:47] How he managed to persuade Trump this was a good idea for the US now, I don't have a good idea. And I think that I think if I listen to the reasons why even the people closest around him have given or that Trump have given, they don't seem persuasive. Now, partly Trump is erratic. Uh partly he sort of you know, uh acts on the basis of instincts. Uh somehow it came to him that this was uh you know, something that could be done.
[00:08:20] I think actually maybe painted a pretty uh I mean the upside of this picture if if it's successful, and I hope now that we've gone into it it would be, would be redefining security in the Middle East for a generation. So, getting rid of the Iranian regime as the uh uh Bibi and company have gotten rid of the proxies of the regime earlier, which again, since October 7th, been extremely impressive, could possibly, you could
[00:08:50] say well, there's going to be a whole new Middle East. And if the if the Middle East were all like the UAE, uh that would be fantastic. Uh fantastic for all the human beings that live there. So, I think maybe he got excited by the upside, not quite uh careful enough about the risks or the downside cuz it the number of ways in which this could go wrong, you know, if if we woke up tomorrow or today and a couple of ships have been sunk
[00:09:18] or a couple of hundred of Americans have been killed, it's going to have a very different uh a different image. And you think that this is independent then of the action with Maduro and independent of the big delegation headed to China for big negotiation next month? Well, I wouldn't say entirely independent. I would think with Maduro, so Trump, I think this again, this is my uh whatever armchair Trumpology, but I
[00:09:47] would say initially he thought tariffs were a magic wand. And every leader thinks if you have a magic wand, that's fantastic. He's tried the tariff magic wand and discovered it didn't quite have all the effects that he imagined on liberation day. Uh he didn't discover the American military, which genuinely is a huge wand. And the Maduro operation was just spectacular. I mean again, it's a military and intelligence operation,
[00:10:19] brilliant. No other country in the world could even imagine doing something like that. And that had actually, you know, makes all of us stand taller. It can also provide a little or historically encourages hubris and an imagination that this magic wand can work in many other arenas. I don't mind at all the proposition that every other country should take account of the fact that the US has the most remarkable military and intelligence
[00:10:49] community in the world. And that's not a bad backdrop for China and for a China trip. So I agree that things may not be completely disconnected, but I think in terms of the timing, I mean right now, when is the war going to be over? If you talk about three or four weeks, we're we'll already he'll be in China March 29th. So my inclination, again, if we were just doing a prediction markets, is that he's going to find a way to declare this over
[00:11:20] before then, cuz he's needs a little time to get his mind set on that. But if you ask the folks at the Defense Department, if you ask the people in Israel, they thinking this is another month or beyond this war. So again there's things I don't think are quite you know in sync. Jason joined us for some hours and it's always a treat to have you here on here. >> see you. Nice to see you. It's just amazing to have you on here and to give
[00:11:44] us this time. If things were to go extremely well and Iran went from a monarchy to a dictatorship and now in this third act here in in the modern day to a democracy and you actually had a democracy with 93 million citizens in the Middle East. What impact would that have on the region? We've seen the Gulf monarchies evolve human rights but they're still monarchies. You have one other I I guess democracy in the region in Israel but
[00:12:14] this could be extraordinary if it was a democracy. What what would that mean to the to the global chessboard? Well, it's a good question. I mean if this could occur it would be spectacular. Even I think but I would say this is way way way too ambitious. There's 100 things that would be wonderful outcomes better than what's likely that would be short of that. I remember uh in Iraq after Bush failed to find nuclear weapons which was the initial
[00:12:48] I would say somewhat up rationale for our going into Iraq. Condi Rice who was the secretary gave a speech about well how wonderful it'll be when Iraq is a democracy and market economy quote radiating stability through the Middle East. So we're pretty good at doing I have a dream you know in that version. I think that's a way way way stretch. I would be very happy with a regime there that simply was not about
[00:13:16] um building nuclear weapons, was not about building missiles that threaten the US and our friends and allies in the region and not about supporting proxies. And if it's a pretty cruel regime, unfortunately that's unfortunate for the Iranian people. The Persian people, and when I'm a student of history, I love Persia. You know, I remember Cyrus, and I remember the Peloponnesian War. I remember, you know, this is a fantastic culture and
[00:13:47] history. They've been hijacked by a terrible, terrible group of people. And if those people can be somehow ousted, you know, wonderful for Iranian people and wonderful for the world. I'm I if I were betting it, again, I'd say go back to the first point. It questions uncertainty, finding signals in the noise extremely difficult. But if I were betting it, it'll end up that the guys with the guns will in some version
[00:14:18] be the next generation. And if they're tamer and less uh uh determined uh to threaten our interests, will this have been worth it? Well, again, we'll have to look at, you know, over the longer run. I think the other thing that we know about wars is that they're unpredictable and that they have many unanticipated consequences. You know, I think as we watch what's happening now and see what impact does that have on oil and gas
[00:14:53] prices, predictable. So, you can see, and going and going. Well, what impact does that have on other countries? A huge. So, the number of countries now whose economies are being disrupted by this impact and therefore blaming us for it. So, I had a call from someone in Taiwan yesterday saying, "Wait a minute, did anybody think what this is doing for us?" Since they get about half of their uh their electricity comes from their
[00:15:23] natural gas that that is now coming you know now not not coming. Uh if you ask about what is this meaning for for Ukraine all the patriots that were to hope to prevent missile strikes from Russia on Ukraine are now in the Middle East. Mhm. So that's that many more target. So this just unfortunately it unfolds in so many so many different directions. Now I don't want to seem too pessimistic about it because again I think we've been
[00:15:59] shocked fortunately on the upside by how a professional our military has and intelligence folks have been and also how pathetic uh or hollow the Iranians have been. First day of the attack I was at the the the Defense Department and I gave them a list of 11 things that I would do and be capable of doing if I were playing the Iranian hand. I and uh they seem to be I don't know. I mean I I I don't know how to even want to say out loud but
[00:16:32] they they act like a paper tiger. Do you think there's there's more damage that can be done by being more successful? You know if we think back to Iraq Iran is twice as many people 100 million versus 50 million four times the land area a much better equipped military and arguably the military system the regime is embedded in every aspect of industry. So the more successful the United States is in dismantling the Iranian regime
[00:17:08] and as was advised by Condoleezza Rice who apparently was just in the White House today and advising the president and publicly stated it's time to finish them off. It's time to go all the way, etc. Does that not then leave a country with no infrastructure, no leadership, 100 million people in tatters, and that's the classic breeding ground for some of these extremist groups to seize control and seize power. And we
[00:17:35] don't have the resources to go in and have another multi-decade Afghanistan-Iraq problem. I'm afraid I agree. Yes, I think the the uncertainties about that I mean, you can do four or five different scenarios for how this might conceivably end. It could end up being a an extended civil war in in Iran among the various national groups, even some of them possibly seceding. So, again, fairly chaotic. Look like Syria plus, okay?
[00:18:04] It could look like Iran or Afghanistan. Well, excuse me, we were there for more than a decade with unlimited resources. Hardly any constraints on the number of people. And how did that work out? So, I I I'd say that I'm I'm a small-c conservative and kind of think history is not always not it's certainly not the only guide, but it's a good place to start. Well, I'm I'm I would say nervous, yeah. Is it too late to have a Venezuelan
[00:18:35] outcome where we've taken out the head of the snake and we've simply replaced it? The snake can continue operating and living without too much destructive damage and effect, but it seems like we may be a little too far gone now in Iran, and that to take this all the way might be very difficult to manage. I Is it too late? >> If I were again, we're all in the dark and all the uncertainty, so back to point one. But after that, I would say
[00:18:59] Trump is erratic, impulsive, but he has some coordinates. And one of them is is his power. See? Mhm. November 3rd is a big day for him. He's focused on that. The economy is a crucial element of that. That's part of the framing of the of the China relationship. The impact of this on the economy is already evident, okay, and could become more evident. The public opinion Again, I think he's I saw today uh uh in the journal that he's sent Hicks
[00:19:38] Hicks Smith out to sell the war. Mhm. Good luck. >> [laughter] >> Mhm. I'm not sure he can sell uh so public opinion of this is about six to four unfavorable. Mhm. Cuz [clears throat] they didn't make the case for the war in advance. Uh the impact of this on other parties including uh parties that we care about is negative. Uh So I I can easily imagine in the next week even uh and declare If you look at actually the way in which