[00:35:35] have a second the second proposition. There's the inexorable decline of the US. And they look at the various parts of the US and the components, including getting involved in unnecessary wars as part of that story, as part of their narrative. And that dynamic, the shifting of the seesaw, is what gives you this fluidity and dynamic that we discussed before, which most often, hard as it is to believe, but most often discombobulates people so
[00:36:08] much that then some incident or accident, like something that happens over Taiwan, leads to a vicious circle of actions and reactions that drags them into a war, after which they think, my god, how did this ever happen? So, that's a long story, but I would say the economic piece is essential for this. And that economic peace means they want to be the manufacturing work workshop for the world and the foundry for the world and
[00:36:36] the supplier for the world. There are two major challenges they have. I believe one of them is population decline, the other is unemployment and the AI that we've seen and what's hitting first could hit them in a major way. Manufacturing is moving to robotics at an alarming place. Then you have things like self-driving which is a major job there for for many people. So on those two axis when you see the youth
[00:37:04] unemployment which I think is 15 or 20% in some locations in China and population decline, is that she's two biggest challenges to deal with and then how does that affect this, you know, bi- this uh Sure. uh relationship? >> Good question and this is more in your old space than mine cuz I've tried to follow but Elon says there's going to be more robots than people, okay? >> Yeah. And if you ask him where where are the
[00:37:30] most advanced robots in the world, the ones that are kicking his ass or he worries about, they're China. So they got a huge number of robot companies. When I was there in uh last When was I last there? In uh uh January, I went to see a factory of Xiaomi Xiaomi, the phone company. They Xiaomi 3 years ago decided that they would make cars. After watching Apple spend $10 million not able to make a car, within 3 years that factory is producing
[00:38:05] cars right now. And they have a huge demand for these cars. They have three lines. One of the lines is all robots. Okay? So they're putting a lot of robots to work. All right? More than half of the working the factory worker robots in the world are in China. Uh and so some of the people are saying, well, you know, if demographics is going to be not so big a problem because if demographics is only a problem because of workers,
[00:38:34] which you know, we're going to have worker In fact, the American workers are more worried about, you know, taking our jobs. So, that's a Now, the issue with for the uh impact on education, they have uh a number of people that have been educated in arenas that are now no longer, you know, high-demand jobs. And unfortunately, we have a lot of that, too. I mean, if you look at people college graduates now that graduated in,
[00:39:02] I don't know, DEI subjects, they're having trouble uh getting jobs. So, I would say uh it's a little There are more similarities there than differences. The other thing is Chinese have demonstrated a great much greater capacity or readiness to adopt and adapt to new technologies. So, if you look at the I'm sure you have or you all have probably had him on, Jenson uh Huang, uh but when he went to China, he said,
[00:39:31] "Gee, I think I came to the future." You know, that uh uh the people don't, you know, they don't use Not only do they not use uh uh coins, they don't use bills, they don't use checks, they don't use credit cards, they just have their face and then go through the store. Let's shift around to what some have described as the longer-term playing field, which is near the Arctic. Some have argued that uh much of the recent push for Greenland by the United
[00:40:04] States is driven by the military threat coming over the Arctic from Russia and from China. I'm wondering if you could just help frame for our audience, why is Greenland so strategic to the United States, and is this effectively a proxy for defense against China and Russia, and why now? Another big question. So, let me start with the bottom line. I think the at least from the judgments of the people whom I respect the most, we can we the US can
[00:40:41] get everything we want from Greenland without invading it or owning it. So, Greenland has been an important base for missile defenses, a tool tool base. We had two other bases that we closed. But we can open as many other bases as we want, and they're very amenable to that. I think President Trump's right to say, "Well, yeah, but I I don't want a short-term lease on these spaces." Well, I would say a 99-year lease sounds
[00:41:10] like a pretty good lease to me for, you know, in 99 years, God knows what's going to be happening. But to the extent that missile defense and is part of it, which it is, I would say that's a part. For the naval component, yes, there I think the as the Arctic uh melts, you already now have an opening of sea lanes, and the way that the uh uh territorial ownership uh the abutters have their claim to the local and the
[00:41:44] regional. And there the the main claims are Russian and Canadian. We have a chunk from Alaska, and then Greenland would be a piece of that. So, I would say that's relevant, but those sea lanes uh at least for the navy people I talked to are they're not as important as they used to be, because now there's so many different ways to get at you're not going to try to blockade a a uh you know, a a waterway uh with ships. You're going to do it
[00:42:14] with smart minds or you're going to do it simply by attacking the ships on the on the way. And if it's underwater, underwater is pretty much all the same. But it's good to have narrow places and shallow places for looking for things. But uh So I I I would say I think Trump's uh uh Greenland venture was more like for fun. Uh plus uh I mean I think uh one of the people that knows him well uh says uh remember he's first of a reality TV producer and
[00:42:49] star. So he just has fun starting with a a drama, uh getting people very excited, uh letting the tension rise, and then finding a resolution. And I think we're attracted to a resolution there. Let me push back just on that point. What I have heard is that there's rising socialism in Western Europe, growing concern that over time as socialism becomes more of the mainstay in the governing models in Western European
[00:43:19] nations, those nations fall more under the influence of China. And as a result, if you think about the influence that China could then have on on Denmark and on Danish foreign policy, if the United States doesn't secure what it needs for the long term, and it may not know what it needs for the long term physically in Greenland today, we only know what we need today, that we're at risk of China having outsized influence over Greenland
[00:43:47] tomorrow. And that that's the real reason for the big push today for Greenland. How does that sit with you? And does that align kind of with with what some folks are are concerned about? I have to think about it. I hadn't heard that argument just that way. Again, what is socialism is complicated. Uh certainly the Chinese Well, yes, they're socialists in some respect. I would say capitalism is I mean, they're autocratic
[00:44:15] and they're party-led. But then their economy is essentially uh, fiercely uh, capitalist. I mean, you have a uh, the uh, um, uh, one of the one of the one of the one of my friends was gladiatorial conflict that makes the competition in Silicon Valley look look tame as the you know, as the parties fight each other. Uh, Well, cuz you can't make money cuz the taxes are so high. But that's [laughter] another Well, and in their case, you know, they they
[00:44:47] they they decide they're going into an arena, let's say for example, EVs. And so they give uh, uh, advantages to companies getting started, even subsidies. And then they let them fight it out. And lo and behold, at the end there'll be uh, you know, 10 or five. But it's fiercely competitive in the meantime, and a lot of guys will get, you know, trampled along the way. And then those guys are excess capacity and they'll
[00:45:14] sell things off, you know, without any concern about the capex. They're just as long as they can stay ahead of the game, you know, selling items or even selling out their inventory. So I think the uh, I think watching the way watching the evolution of other countries, including Europe, and when I think uh, and their relations with China as well as with us in this game is a very relevant point. And I would say that
[00:45:45] uh, one of the things that the Trump administration has had trouble with is recognizing that if we're in a fierce rivalry with China, they have four times as many people. We need to have some allies with heft on our side of the seesaw to keep it from going the wrong direction and so yes kind of sometimes you need to give your ally a cold bath in order to get them to shape up but uh I think uh uh getting Canadians to think of us as an
[00:46:21] enemy is a pretty wild idea uh uh I mean any treatment that comes to that conclusion and if you take Carney whom I know from when she was in Harvard college kid he's he's as American as anybody or he was but the idea if you go and threaten a politician's survival that's a pretty good way to piss them off and if you threaten to take territory from people that's a pretty good way to make them feel hostile so this is an unusual treatment if we're
[00:46:58] trying to you know get guys with heft on our side of the seesaw. At the World Economic Forum I wasn't sure if it was Davos or another one of their forums. Were you at the Davos one this year? Sure. So as a total aside just bringing President Trump's impact it was two and a half days of people wondering what he would say when he got there. The town shut down as people watched his two-hour stand-up Yeah. you know
[00:47:23] delivery and then another two days of people sort of trying to understand and figure out what happened there. So I there's something It was really It was a reality TV show for sure. Yeah. So it took over the whole place. This fellow uh uh Butch who was his communication guy for a week or 10 days till he got fired in the first administration said on the first night I was at an event he said remember this is going to be a real
[00:47:49] reality TV show it's going to start with the claim that we're going to invade Greenland which by God invading an ally that's a pretty big deal. He said, then you're going to watch the drama build. When Trump had a chance to speak, he's speaking this long way back and forth, back. But he then had a just a paragraph in which he said, he basically took the gun off the table. But before that, he was doing a mafioso
[00:48:15] act, even some some mafioso lines about, you know, you could either have it the easy way or the hard way. One of the That's a Godfather line. And so people were saying, yikes, you know, this what it what it what has been loose on us. So now you have all this drama, but then he says, I've decided we're not going to invade Greenland. You know, he he just passes that off. So now the temperature goes down. And now the third day he does
[00:48:39] some other as Institute of or Board of Peace, and he says, we now have a framework of an agreement. So I think I think half of the time he's having fun. Yeah. You know, it's sort of ex- it it does get people's attention. Sure it does. You on a substantive basis shared a framework, 80 89. And I think it you know, I've I've spent a a bunch of time listening to the talk he gave and and some people's reaction to it. Maybe you could share it with the
[00:49:12] audience and why it's important. Oh, thank you. I'm glad you So I think this is a big idea. So these are three numbers, each of which is the answer to a question. And if you can remember the three numbers, and you can identify the question to which each one is the answer, you have the big picture about international security in the lifetime of yourself and even your parents. That's virtually everybody who's alive today. So the
[00:49:44] first 80 is the answer to what? How long it's been since a World War. How many years since a great power war? Since a World War. Yeah. Now, whoa, wait a minute. 80 years. This is the longest peace in recorded history since Rome. This is not natural. This is very abnormal. This is a didn't happen by accident. This was what the people who founded the international order after World War II were trying to build a new world order.
[00:50:16] Cuz they had just lived through a terrible World War II. Simply one generation before, they remembered, "Hey, there was World War I." Mhm. So, if we just keep doing this, we should expect World War III. Mhm. It should [clears throat] have already happened. If it could have happened at the Cuban Missile Crisis. So, no great power war, fantastic. And but a a fragile a work in progress all the time, eroding inevitably for many, many different
[00:50:45] reasons. Right? Second 80. How many years since we've [snorts] had a nuclear bomb go off? Fantastic. So, think about that. If you had gone if there'd been prediction markets, and you'd gone in 1945 or 50, you would have got 10,000 to one odds against that. It's impossible. The weapon that ended World War II, and you're not ever going to see any use of those weapons in war? Whoa. And then, nine? The number of countries,
[00:51:14] nation-states, that have nuclear bombs today. >> Fantastic, Jack. You're right. How in the world could you have only nine countries having nuclear weapons? Nuclear weapons being your kind of ultimate security blanket. Again, John Kennedy in 1963 said, "By the '70s, there'll be 25 or 30 nuclear weapon states." Cuz he thought that as states acquired the capability to build nuclear weapons, they would do so. Today, 90 95 states could have nuclear
[00:51:46] weapons in a year or two if they decided to build them. Actually, into the '70s, Sweden had a serious nuclear program. South Korea had a nuclear program. Taiwan had a nuclear program. US closed those down, created a so-called non-proliferation regime. That's accounted for this nine, but I would say again, uh fragile, eroding, not likely to be sustained. So, when I try to do my uh giving thanks for uh you know, things that I should be
[00:52:18] thankful for, thankful for 80 years without a great power war? If there were a great power war, you and I we wouldn't be here, and we wouldn't be having this conversation, and all the other issues we have to deal with. So, I would say that 80 the 80 and nine we should not take for granted. We should give thanks for the work that was done to to build them, and then we should notice what's going to be required to sustain this. And we almost had a
[00:52:45] tenth nuclear power in Iran. We did. And we had the latest two, if I'm correct, you'll correct me cuz you're the expert, Pakistan and North Korea, and we had that one doctor Khan, I believe his name was from Pakistan, who was trying to spread and sell these. So, Absolutely. Did we make a critical error, we being the West, even the East, humanity, the leadership, of letting Pakistan and North Korea into this club?
[00:53:11] Well, I mean, not not into the club, but allowing them to get nuclear weapons, which is right. The Israelis have had a different idea. Uh this goes back uh uh uh to the original attack on Iraq, on Osirak. Uh they got call it affirmative non-proliferation. So, they say, "We're not allowing nuclear weapons in our neighborhood." And they've uh destroyed the nuclear weapon project in Iraq. They destroyed the nuclear weapon
[00:53:44] activity in Syria when the North Koreans were building a plant there half dozen years ago. And now they've been the leaders in the destruction of the Iranian nuclear program, which we participated in. I, however, I'm uncomfortable about the wars and even in Iran. I had to cheer for this because I fear additional nuclear weapon states. And I wish that we had managed somehow, let's say, the North Korean case. I've even said this to Chinese
[00:54:16] officials. I said, "You know, we and you made a terrible mistake. Maybe we made a bigger mistake to let North Korea get nuclear weapons. But what we should have said to you is, 'Hey, we have an idea. Nuclear weapons are either good for North Korea and South Korea or they're good for neither of them. Your choice.' And that would have been hardball, but I I think uh uh the idea of having Kim Jong-un have now more than 100 nuclear warheads
[00:54:52] and missiles that can reach the American homeland is crazy. I mean, here we're talking about Iran and what it might be. Excuse me. It takes uh 20 minutes longer from Korea to get to Boston than from Iran or maybe 25 minutes. So, I I think that uh that's a useful perspective to remind us that we let this thing happen. It's a ticking bomb as far as I'm concerned. If you ask me what to do about it, I I makes me you know
[00:55:28] cry because Trump in the first administration focused on this problem very very seriously and did everything that he thought he could. And I thought it was a good a good effort, even though it was not successful. But the 20 other ways we've tried to deal with that problem were all equally unsuccessful. >> How does China feel about nuclear proliferation and North Korea having these bombs? Well, I think they feel a