[00:17:08] and as was advised by Condoleezza Rice who apparently was just in the White House today and advising the president and publicly stated it's time to finish them off. It's time to go all the way, etc. Does that not then leave a country with no infrastructure, no leadership, 100 million people in tatters, and that's the classic breeding ground for some of these extremist groups to seize control and seize power. And we
[00:17:35] don't have the resources to go in and have another multi-decade Afghanistan-Iraq problem. I'm afraid I agree. Yes, I think the the uncertainties about that I mean, you can do four or five different scenarios for how this might conceivably end. It could end up being a an extended civil war in in Iran among the various national groups, even some of them possibly seceding. So, again, fairly chaotic. Look like Syria plus, okay?
[00:18:04] It could look like Iran or Afghanistan. Well, excuse me, we were there for more than a decade with unlimited resources. Hardly any constraints on the number of people. And how did that work out? So, I I I'd say that I'm I'm a small-c conservative and kind of think history is not always not it's certainly not the only guide, but it's a good place to start. Well, I'm I'm I would say nervous, yeah. Is it too late to have a Venezuelan
[00:18:35] outcome where we've taken out the head of the snake and we've simply replaced it? The snake can continue operating and living without too much destructive damage and effect, but it seems like we may be a little too far gone now in Iran, and that to take this all the way might be very difficult to manage. I Is it too late? >> If I were again, we're all in the dark and all the uncertainty, so back to point one. But after that, I would say
[00:18:59] Trump is erratic, impulsive, but he has some coordinates. And one of them is is his power. See? Mhm. November 3rd is a big day for him. He's focused on that. The economy is a crucial element of that. That's part of the framing of the of the China relationship. The impact of this on the economy is already evident, okay, and could become more evident. The public opinion Again, I think he's I saw today uh uh in the journal that he's sent Hicks
[00:19:38] Hicks Smith out to sell the war. Mhm. Good luck. >> [laughter] >> Mhm. I'm not sure he can sell uh so public opinion of this is about six to four unfavorable. Mhm. Cuz [clears throat] they didn't make the case for the war in advance. Uh the impact of this on other parties including uh parties that we care about is negative. Uh So I I can easily imagine in the next week even uh and declare If you look at actually the way in which
[00:20:12] he's left himself room to declare victory at having, as you say, had a cut off the head of the snake, destroyed their military their nuclear capabilities, destroyed their ability to project power or in the Defense Department we always say destroy or degrade. Degrade has a lot of dimensions as you would point out and uh now it's up to the Iranian people to seize their own government and take advantage of themselves. The difficulty
[00:20:43] with that will be Bibi wants to fight on till the regime is destroyed. And that'll be an interesting struggle to see how that goes. Earlier, Trump demonstrated that when he thought it was in American interest he was prepared to pull Bibi's chain. So, we'll see. This is I think in before we move out of the MENA region a topic that's coming up. There's obviously no support for this war in America. Most Americans put
[00:21:12] foreign affairs today at 1 or 2% of their concern. Economy and many other issues are are high on their list. And he's been pretty clear, "Hey, we're not going to put boots on the ground." And then there's this anti-Semitic underpinning that's happening in America that's become pretty acute. And you had Rubio, who mentioned earlier, say, "Hey, we did this because uh the Israelis were going in anyway and we had no choice." And then they walked
[00:21:39] that back. Explain to the audience how we should look at that turn of events where there's a group of people in America, specifically people in the MAGA party, who believe Trump has betrayed them and that he's captured by the Israeli um government in some way and he's doing their bidding. I'm not saying that that's my perspective, but that is a an undertone that we're seeing. And that's something new in our lifetime, I think.
[00:22:05] It It certainly is. So, this is a big topic, but I'd say when I talk about it, I I I say, "I'm pro-Israeli and anti-Bibi." So, Bibi is not Israel. The people whom I know mostly and respect mostly in Israel are the national security barons. The people who've been the chief of staff or the head of Mossad or the head of Shin Bet or the people that work in that in those structures. And they believe that Bibi is actually
[00:22:37] destroying the Ben-Gurion's Israeli democracy that they cared about. Or if take Tom Friedman, it's pretty hard to accuse him of being anti-Is- you know, anti-Semitic, uh but he's been I think very clear and very courageous in pointing out that what Bibi's doing to Israel's democracy is really destroying it. And the impact of that on Jewish kids in America, I mean, I see this on campus, where they want to be proud of Israel. They they
[00:23:12] deserve to be proud of the country that has been built over these years, but they look at the behavior of these crazy right-wing settlers and their activities in the in the occupied West Bank, or they look at some of the activities in Gaza, or they look at now the kind of unlimited uh war without any any even attempt to make arguments about proportionality, and just say, "Wait a minute. That's not the country I want to be proud of. I
[00:23:42] want to be proud of of Rabin's Israel. I want to be proud of Ehud Barak's Israel. I want to be proud of Ben-Gurion's Israel." And I'm I'm pretty much of that of that persuasion. I think what what uh what Bibi risks in this, and risked earlier, uh with uh siding I mean, inter- interfering in American politics, in- invites pushback. So, I think this could have a big long-term negative effect both in the Democratic
[00:24:17] Party and the Republican Party, especially on the under younger people. If you look at the polling for the under 30s on Israel, it's just like shocking, you know. Mhm. Can we move to China because I think that again, this is going to be the big story over the next month. You've said publicly that ousting Maduro from Venezuela could embolden China to accelerate a Taiwan takeover. The CIA, it has been reported in media,
[00:24:48] warned Tim Cook of Apple and other tech companies about a possible invasion as soon as next year. You've separately met publicly with Chinese officials. What's your view on the likelihood and the timeline of a China attempted takeover of Taiwan? And what are these kind of motivating factors that might make that happen sooner? So, let me clarify. I I'm not sure or I may have been misinterpreted, but obviously the
[00:25:15] Chinese watch very carefully. They study wars and they will learn lessons from what's going on here, but I don't think that is a I don't think the Venezuelan operation other than making them feel envious about the capabilities will impact their likelihood of attacking Taiwan. So, Taiwan, number one, I think the likelihood of an attack on Taiwan this year or next year or even in the '28, but let me just do '26 and '27, absent some major
[00:25:46] provocation by Taiwan or some other third incident is very low. I'd put it at about where the where the prediction markets are, 5% or something low. So, I'm not counting on that. So, why is that so low? I'm just curious. Why 5%? Yeah. Okay, because, first, they they have a theory of the case of what they call peaceful reunification and they think things are evolving in that direction. Uh the theory of the case is that the current uh government,
[00:26:21] which is a DPP government, which currently is is stymied by its opposition in the parliament, so they can't even buy the arm sales that we previously gave them. There's $11 billion arm sales that the Chinese have complained about, but Taiwan is the legislature probably won't buy half of that, okay? So, the current president is struggling. There's going to be election in January '28 and they think it's likely that the
[00:26:55] former uh party the KMT will be elected. Somebody that will be much more sympathetic to China and uh a a devolving relationship. So, that's number one. Number two, the Chinese have been engaged in a a deep deep purge of all of their military leadership. I mean, it's hard to believe and you read about in the paper from time to time that he fired this guy, he fired this guy. He's fired the equivalent of every four-star
[00:27:25] in our whole political system and every combatant commander and every commander who would be commandeering the force commanding the forces over, you know, to deal with Taiwan. So, while they've been building up that military capability, takes a long time to get that back in the order in my view. So, I would say that part's makes me feel less likely. Third, I think he understands that uh if he were to do this, there's a risk, not
[00:27:53] a certainty, but a risk that the US would become involved and that the impact of that either on China's economy, which he's got to worry about first, and also what its evolution would be significant. So, I'm I'm looking for uh and oh sorry, finally, in Trump, uh he has the most accommodating president uh that China's likely to see with respect to Taiwan. So, Trump has made no secrets. I mean, he talks publicly of
[00:28:23] his views about Taiwan. In I think a couple of the memoirs, there's this discussion where he's in the Oval and he's talking about Taiwan and he picks uh somebody asks him about Taiwan, he picks up one of those Sharpies and goes thump, you know, on a spot on the Resolute Desk and he said, "That's Taiwan." Then he draws a sand around the whole desk, He "That's China." So, I'd say, you know, I'm less worried about Taiwan in the
[00:28:54] in on the on the current path. Now, over the longer run, the Chinese are absolutely clear, she and all the leadership, that Taiwan is an inseparable part of China. And how that could be satisfied in a way that allow the Taiwanese the degree or substantial degree of the uh freedom for both their economy and their society is the challenge that we've been struggling with for a long time. But, the good news is we've been
[00:29:23] doing this for 50 years, and Taiwan has never seen such a manners, you know, such such circumstances. So, I say to the Taiwanese friends, you know, basically, don't uh don't screw it up. Are we taking the right course of action, do you think? I guess the big question for for you is what's the strategic imperative to keep Taiwan from falling under direct Chinese control for the United States, and are we taking the right actions to
[00:29:54] hedge our bets, if you will, against that happening? Meaning, onshoring of semiconductor manufacturing, but also maybe from a defense perspective and positioning perspective, you can share a little bit about whether we're >> Sure. That's a big big question. So, first uh
[00:30:40] >> complicated situation to begin with. Uh secondly, Taiwan is halfway around the world as President Trump says, and 90 mi off the shore of China. And we're far away, and we have a lot of other things to worry about. So, it's a little bit like Cuba. So, inherently indefensible if China is were seriously determined to either destroy it or to take it. Now, on the other hand, since the opening to China and the Shanghai Communique, there's been an
[00:31:14] agreement of maintaining a status quo uh with the US commitment being what's called strategic ambiguity, in which uh the US and China have been committed to Taiwan internal development is left to its own device, and China doesn't use military force to prevent that, but we say Taiwan is this one China, and the only China's capital is Beijing, and then we have a a little bit of ambiguous way to talk about the relationship between
[00:31:49] Taiwan and China, but certainly letting it evolve in any way that the parties would be prepared to live with. Most people expecting that over time this relationship will work its way out. And I when I talk to Chinese about it, I say to them, "First, you've never seen 50 better years on either side of the straits. So, this has been fantastic for both societies in terms of what they care about. And secondly, if they look at
[00:32:17] this situation, if China's core strategy is correct, uh which is the inexorable rise of China, and that continues, in another decade or two, Taiwan will look like a flea. And therefore, not going to be an issue. If it if If China's main narrative doesn't work, Taiwan is not going to be their biggest problem. So, they should work on the other issues, yeah. If you think about China projecting influence around the world,
[00:32:49] how important is it for them to continue to do that? There was recently an objective, I think, of a GDP growth in the 5% range, 4 to 5%. Is that right for China, which >> The 4 and 1/2 to 5, yeah. 4 and 1/2 to 5, which is a record low in recent history for them. Is it imperative for China to continue to extend geopolitical and economic influence around the world to grow its economy? You know, going back to the framing of
[00:33:20] the rising power, do they still need to do that to keep people happy at home, or is China going to be able to maintain happiness at home in a multipolar world, where China and perhaps the US and perhaps some other countries share influence around the world? This is one you raised and we talked about the last time, which is interesting. I think we agreed. So, let me just again for people that don't remember, start. So, first, China is a
[00:33:51] meteoric rising power. Never has a country risen so far, so fast, on so many different dimensions. If you take a snapshot of the year 2000 and the year 2025 and compare China on any metric of power, it's just dumbfounding. Dumbfounding. So, a country that I have compared it to kind of like a Formula 1 racing. A country that we couldn't find in our rearview mirror in 2020, or sorry, 2000, because it was so far behind,
[00:34:26] we have trouble finding in our rearview mirror today because it's beside us or in many races even slightly ahead of us. Now, that's GDP, it was less than 5% of global or it was less than a quarter the US in 2000. Today, by purchasing power parity, it's 25% larger. In 2000, trading, it was 5% of global. Today, and we were 15, today it's 35 and we're 25. If you do advanced tech in any any area, take 5G, my goodness,
[00:35:03] take EVs, my goodness, take whatever. Okay, so rapidly rising power. That's essential. That's the infrastructure for their grand narratives, which is the inexorable rise of China to its natural position in the international order, which they think is at at the top of the pyramid. So, they are absolutely determined to be number one in their own arena to begin with. And then after that, you know, maybe more. And they also they
[00:35:35] have a second the second proposition. There's the inexorable decline of the US. And they look at the various parts of the US and the components, including getting involved in unnecessary wars as part of that story, as part of their narrative. And that dynamic, the shifting of the seesaw, is what gives you this fluidity and dynamic that we discussed before, which most often, hard as it is to believe, but most often discombobulates people so
[00:36:08] much that then some incident or accident, like something that happens over Taiwan, leads to a vicious circle of actions and reactions that drags them into a war, after which they think, my god, how did this ever happen? So, that's a long story, but I would say the economic piece is essential for this. And that economic peace means they want to be the manufacturing work workshop for the world and the foundry for the world and
[00:36:36] the supplier for the world. There are two major challenges they have. I believe one of them is population decline, the other is unemployment and the AI that we've seen and what's hitting first could hit them in a major way. Manufacturing is moving to robotics at an alarming place. Then you have things like self-driving which is a major job there for for many people. So on those two axis when you see the youth
[00:37:04] unemployment which I think is 15 or 20% in some locations in China and population decline, is that she's two biggest challenges to deal with and then how does that affect this, you know, bi- this uh Sure. uh relationship? >> Good question and this is more in your old space than mine cuz I've tried to follow but Elon says there's going to be more robots than people, okay? >> Yeah. And if you ask him where where are the
[00:37:30] most advanced robots in the world, the ones that are kicking his ass or he worries about, they're China. So they got a huge number of robot companies. When I was there in uh last When was I last there? In uh uh January, I went to see a factory of Xiaomi Xiaomi, the phone company. They Xiaomi 3 years ago decided that they would make cars. After watching Apple spend $10 million not able to make a car, within 3 years that factory is producing
[00:38:05] cars right now. And they have a huge demand for these cars. They have three lines. One of the lines is all robots. Okay? So they're putting a lot of robots to work. All right? More than half of the working the factory worker robots in the world are in China. Uh and so some of the people are saying, well, you know, if demographics is going to be not so big a problem because if demographics is only a problem because of workers,