[00:42:33] day, they're just trying to use the government to deploy capital to their constituents as best they can. I mean, that's the mechanism of the electorate at this point. And just hearing your words resonates with me because I've made a number of visits to DC in the last couple of months since the inauguration and there was a lot of proclaim about Doge and it's a new day in Washington and I felt a degree of optimism and hope that things were
[00:42:55] changing in DC but every member of Congress I sat down with was a a disappointing conversation that reflects the views that you just shared that they don't really understand what's going on and they don't really care. It's not a priority to solve the fiscal crisis that we're in and they're not willing to admit it. It's like a stage 4 terminal patient not willing to admit that they're sick and they need to to take
[00:43:17] some therapy. Well, the the the data that backs us up is, and I wrote this in my Wall Street Journal column, 1930, the federal government spent about 3.5% of our GDP. 3.5. State and local governments were about 9.1. That that was the foundational premise of America. government close to governed where it's more effective, more efficient, more accountable. Now we're spending close to 24% the federal level. States are
[00:43:42] probably somewhere 12 to 15. Haven't looked that recent. And as Lord Actton pointed out, you know, power corrupts. Yeah, government is power. That's mean that is really the definition of government is power. So it gets corrupted and it's been corrupted. And I don't know, we're, you know, I fear we're past the point of no return. Uh why did I run again for a third term? As disgusted as I am in this process, a I
[00:44:06] couldn't turn my back on this country. I can't give up on it. I'm not overly optimistic. And again, it's not just the as government grows, your freedom recedes. As government grows, you get more and more people dependent on it. Well, that's right. And they're not they're not doing things productive. You don't have a vibrant economy. That's right. You know, it's just it's a it's it all all in all is destructive of
[00:44:28] society. to the point about your numbers, Senator, you know, and I've talked about this on our show where I've tried to estimate what percent of Americans gain their employment through a government paycheck, a servicing the government, or a government contractor. And I think it's probably at 50% today. So 50% of Americans are either working for a public agency, uh, federal, state, or local, or working for the contractor
[00:44:52] of a government agency. And that's where you pass the tipping point where it's no longer possible to bring down the spending because at that point everyone in a representative democracy has every incentive to keep it up. Otherwise, they will individually lose, not just have something individually to gain. That's where I worry we're at. I guess the hardliners like yourself may be the last line of defense here, but that's where I
[00:45:16] was really curious to hear how how far are you willing to take this in this particular reconciliation bill process that's about to hit your desk in the next couple of weeks. And who who else is shoulder-to-shoulder with you with the same point of view in the Senate? Well, I think Rand Paul is pretty much a hard no regardless. Um, again, I don't think you could get a good enough bill where he'd vote yes. Uh the my other allies for sure in this
[00:45:41] thing are Mike Lee and and Rick Scott. You know, each one of us has our own thoughts. You know, may accept something different than the others. I'm I'm pretty well dug in, but I'm but I'm reasonable. Uh you you give me something that, like I say, commits to getting to a pre- pandemic global spending uh and a process to achieve and maintain it, I I'll work with you. Now, one of the things I did, and we had it pinned to my
[00:46:07] top of my ex page, I think it's further on down now, but I put together a video about a minute 30 starting with, you know, President Trump at State of the Union saying he was going to balance the federal budget and then the vice president and everybody on down some version of we don't have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. At the very end of the video, I I asked, "So, are we willing to fix it?" You
[00:46:27] know, right now doesn't appear we are, but I I intend to insist that we do. Uh, so I'm I'm I'm I'm gonna dig my heels in. There there's no there's nothing that President Trump can do to pressure me other than other than start work with me. Acknowledge the numbers. You know, I'm I'm texting. They're probably annoyed with me. Bessent and Hasset and Russ all the time said here here's here's my viewpoint. What am I not
[00:46:54] getting right? So they know exactly what I'm thinking. They know exactly my concerns. They know exactly numbers. You know, I I had good nice lunch with uh Scott Besson in the Treasury Department. I gave him my charts and graphs, all that kind of stuff. I'm He asked for the electronic versions of those so he could distribute those to the Treasury Department. So, none of this should come as any surprise to anybody. And again,
[00:47:15] the the ace I hold is I am going to force the numbers that we have to look at out in the public because to this point, we haven't discussed it. And the number from your perspective, if you had to create a hierarchy just in your messaging, is the number we should take away is that we're about to tune the debt to 60 to 70. So call it 65 at the midpoint. Is that the number that we should be focused on? Is I first focus
[00:47:43] on focus on spending. Okay. 89.3 trillion. Again, that's again that represents government, right? That's that represents that power that's been corrupted. that that represents the just unprecedented other than World War II increase in spending from 2019 of 58 to 60%. So if if you if you can't deal with that in my column I pointed out, you know, our our forefathers, the greatest generation, responsible leadership, you
[00:48:08] know, entered World War II spending about 11.7%. Ramped that up to 41% during the war. By 1948, they were down to 11.4%. So it's entirely possible, but you need leadership. I need the president of the United States. By the way, I've been in the White House with him. I've shown him my charts and graphs. He goes, "I love this. I love this. The house ought to love this. Have they has this been presented?" So, no, Mr. President, let's
[00:48:30] go to the house. Let's present this. He didn't do that. We need President Trump to embrace the reality that we are spending way too much money. He was elected to defeat the D State. You don't defeat it spending it by levels. He needs to see the detail. Again, I think, you know, to be charitable, I think he's been so busy doing so many other wonderful things that I support. He hasn't focused on this. I'm going to force him to focus on
[00:48:56] this. This will be the moment you think. And so, when you speak with Besson, does he think he can get the president there as well? I mean, I always think back to Bill Clinton with his balanced budget economic poster boards that he put up, right? the like here's the simple charts, let me explain it to you and every American could watch that on television and understand what he was talking about, nodded their head and
[00:49:18] Congress and the entire populace went along with it. Do we need that? Do we get that moment, do you think? Yeah. And again, I don't think the numbers are that complicated. Yeah. Point them out. You know, $22 trillion of additional deficit spending. That's a rosy scenario. That's $2.2 trillion per year. You know, Obama his a he averaged about $900 billion a year deficit. Trump before the pandemic is about 800
[00:49:41] billion. You know, but Biden's up to almost $ 1.9 trillion average deficit. Clearly unsustainable. We got to get back to a reasonable level. And by the way, if we do, I think the bonds would bond markets would rejoice. We wouldn't be looking at a ramping up of interest costs. uh you know we can talk about you know debt to wealth as opposed to debt debt to GDP because we've got that monkey off our back. You said something
[00:50:06] interesting. I just want to come back to which is you said when the government absorbs all the dollars in the system, there's fewer and fewer dollars left for private industry. Just to build on this, one of the things that I brought up at the beginning of this year, I said the most important thing that you need is tail insurance. The tail risk needs to get managed at the beginning of this year. And there's a very important market that
[00:50:28] is a gauge of that towards private industry which is called credit default. which is what is the risk of private industry not being able to pay back their obligations. And unfortunately through the course of this year we've seen the cost of that insurance ramp. But at the beginning of liberation day, there was some relief there because people saw a path out of this. And unfortunately, we're back to almost near
[00:50:53] highs. And it is the market signaling that first we'll go private industry and then the second will be the repricing of the risk for the US government. And I think that if people can really understand that that's the cascade, to your point, that first card has unfortunately been turned over. Now, we haven't seen the implications on Main Street of that, but that's what we need to avoid. We need to get these markets
[00:51:18] to understand the bigger picture, but we need to show them something. And we also have to focus on economic growth through the private sector, right? Not fueled by government deficit spending. I mean, I don't know what percent of our actual growth came from $2 trillion year deficits. I think a pretty good chunk. So, have we really had real private sector growth? think we have but not as not as much as I think the headline
[00:51:41] numbers because so much of it has been fueled by by the government. By the way, that's also true in terms of revenue coming from from the government. I mean, it is true that we beat the CBO estimates, but that's because of trillions of dollars of deficit spending starting the pandemic years followed through with with Biden. Prior to the pandemic, we weren't we really weren't matching even the CBO's, you know,
[00:52:03] downgrade of revenue coming in after the TCGA. we weren't hitting it. But then you had COVID hit and again trillions of dollars in deficit spending that also boosted revenue. So again, all these people saying, "Oh, we're going to, you know, that that tax increase that's going to be dynamically scored and it's going to pay for itself." Listen, I'm all for dynamic scoring, but let's let's be realistic. And and again, I'll point out the CBO
[00:52:27] projection I'm dealing with, $22 trillion, that assumes we go from 17.1 to 18% of GDP in terms of revenue. So, you know, if if if if we don't cancel the tax increase, uh, and there's a dynamic scoring effect, it just means we don't hit 18.1 and that number is still lower. Talk to us about the setup for 2026 and maybe if you want your thoughts about where the country goes into 2028. One of the things that Dave
[00:52:56] talks about a lot is moments that galvanize some form of populist socialism. this idea, as he said very articulately, I can just vote myself the money, so who's going to just give me the most money? Can you just walk us through some political forecasting for us? That's why I'm not an optimist. Um, but you know, I've heard people rationalize this, and I mean important people rationalize, you know, just just go along with this. Get us the P. I
[00:53:21] mean, this is what we have to do to win the majority, maintain the majority in the House in 2027, right? What good is a majority if you literally don't solve the problems that you're aware of? I mean, what good Oh, oh, oh. So, we when we have the majority in 2027, then then we're going to actually spend the, you know, turn the spending curve down. That's when we're going to return to prepandemic level spending. I
[00:53:43] don't buy it. This is this is our one opportunity and right now we're blowing it and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure we don't blow it. But again, that is the reality. Listen, I'm not I don't discount the fact that we may lose the House, we may lose the Senate, but I would say we do that because we're not solving these problems. We're going to be looked at as unserious. You know, our base is going
[00:54:05] to go, "What? Wh Why did we Why did we elect you guys? You didn't take the bull by the horns. You didn't solve this problem. You're you're really no better than Democrats." I think we have to be concerned about that. If this reconciliation bill gets done, Senator, in the next couple of weeks, what bill would you hope to see next to get to that north star of fiscal responsibility? Is there a recision bill that you'd be looking for? Do we need to
[00:54:31] actually have a sit down and talk about building a budget? What's the right next step here in creating a northstar that creates stability for the republic? Again, it's developing a process that will achieve and maintain a prepandemic level spending, you know, just a lower spending level. It's a it's it is I come from manufacturing base, right? You you can't have a good product without a good process. And we've just never had that
[00:54:54] process. So, the only one I can think of is what doge has demonstrated does work in terms of the public supporting us in terms of eliminating just awful spending. So, you got to expose it. You got to go line by line. Again, there there are thousands of lines, just top lines in the federal budget. Hundreds thousands of lines under each one of those as well. So, you have to do the work. And again, I would love to take that Doge team, you know,
[00:55:20] those geniuses with all their AI and their computer skills and get, you know, 100 200 forensic auditors and just go through this line by line. And again, my proposal was uh having this budget review panel, senators, house members, members of the administration, OM. Uh then you you basically set up the process just like you do in a business. You know, here's your budget review sheet. This is then you bring the
[00:55:45] department heads, their financial gurus in front of this budget review panel. Just justify your spending. But again, I would be comparing it to outlays under Clinton plus up, outlays under Obama plus up, outlays under Trump plus up. go through every line and go, first of all, why are you spending more than even Trump? Why are you spending more than Obama or Clinton? Plus, why are you spending any money at all on this? But
[00:56:09] you have to go through the work. You So, you need the time. I've been proposing this now for months. Nobody's put in the the effort. OM said, "We don't have enough time." And I realized they're they're busy. The House said, "No, you know, we've been working on this for a year. We're satisfied with our numbers. We didn't have the time." The Senate really Senate leadership is the only one that's been fully behind what I'm trying
[00:56:30] to do here. But I can't we can't do it alone. I mean, I can't do it. I don't have the budget expertise. So, it really is it's getting the commitment of the president that he he is determined to not keep funding the deep state buying levels, return to a reasonable prepandemic level spending, and then get his OM fully behind this effort. This got to be every this got to be the biggest effort on budget ever. and then
[00:56:54] set the thing up, show it works, and then hopefully maintain it over the years. I I I can't think of anything. We've tried all this other stuff and never worked. Well, look, I hope you find a path towards that goal, Senator. I think it's a critical time. And speaking as an American, appreciate your resiliency in the face of what I'm sure is a lot of political pressure and tension right now in trying to make sure
[00:57:19] that the right thing is done here for the long term of American prosperity. So, thank you for your service. Thank you for the work you do. We appreciate it. I appreciate you having me on. I I will say one thing that is different about me than others. I'd rather go home. That that's a significant difference when when you'd rather I'd rather return to my private sector life than keep serving here in this total
[00:57:42] dysfunction. Uh that that is that is what again I can't be pressured by President Trump. I I can't I mean, he's not going to flip me just by the force of his argument or any kind of political pressure. There's there's just no pressure he can apply to me. He's willing to sit down with me, look at the numbers, acknowledge them, working forward in a reasonable plan forward. Uh that's that's the only way he's going to
[00:58:06] get my support. Well, I hope that there are others that get into the same mindset as you. I've always found it off-putting that folks choose to be politicians as a career rather than rotating in and out of doing this as a service and then going back into the private sector where I think that a lot of the misalignments and conditioning can be avoided. So yeah, appreciate that mindset and and thank you. Thank you
[00:58:32] Senator for your cander. Thanks for having me on transparency. Thank you. I mean my conclusion today is similar to how I finished the pod yesterday which is concern that the bond market is not going to take this well. I do think that that puts a lot of pressure on America and I think it's going to put pressure on private industry and what will happen as a result is not necessarily that we go bankrupt or whatever but there is no