[00:00:00] Power corrupts. Government is power and it's been corrupted. Nobody knew in total how much we spend because we never even talk about it. The first goal of this Republican budget reconciliation should be don't add to the deficit. I voted for President Trump because I wanted him to defeat the deep state. You don't defeat the deep state by continuing to fund it at Biden's levels. Our base is going to go, "What? Why did we elect you guys?
[00:00:26] You're really no better than Democrats." I don't think President Trump, he's not focused on reducing spending. This is our one opportunity and right now we're blowing it and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure we don't blow it. I can't be pressured by President Trump. He's willing to sit down with me, look at the numbers, acknowledge them, working forward in a reasonable plan forward. That's the only
[00:00:46] way he's going to get my support. So, everyone has assumed that the House passage of the reconciliation bill is going to go to the Senate with some minor changes and then make its way to President Trump's desk for signing. But that may not be the case. There are several hardliners in the US Senate who have made it very clear that the budget and the fiscal deficit problems that arise from this bill are insurmountable
[00:01:10] and they're going to take a very hard stance on voting no on this bill. Taking the lead on that point of view is Senator Johnson from Wisconsin, who's going to join us today for an emergency pod to talk about what's next with the Senate review of the reconciliation bill, what his thoughts are, what's the future of the republic, and what's ahead. We're really excited for this emergency pod. Thank you for joining us.
[00:01:32] All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crush your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. Senator, thanks for joining Chimathan for this conversation this morning. Good morning, guys, and thanks for having me
[00:01:55] on. And just by way of background, Senator, you were elected to the US Senate in 2010. You've had two re-elections since then. More recently, we've taken notice, and I gave a shout out to you for your comments on the scaling of the deficit and the US federal debt. And as a Republican against the stated intention of getting this bill passed and through the Senate as is, and we'd love to kind of hear from you today about your points of view
[00:02:22] on the bill that was passed in the House this week, the reconciliation bill, and then take a step back and talk a little bit about the fiscal picture for the United States and where things are headed. So, thanks for that and thanks for joining us. Maybe we could just start a little bit with a very basic primer for our audience, something that we don't talk about very much on the show. Can you just tell us what a
[00:02:41] reconciliation bill is and how it's used so folks can understand a little bit about the process that the House just undertook and what's ahead? Sure. Let me start. You talked about when I first ran for election in 2010, I spray out the Tea Party. Never had been involved in politics whatsoever and didn't even decide to run until the end of April. announced in May, started a campaign during the summer, did all those
[00:03:04] parades. My what I would shout during the parades was, "This is a fight for freedom. We're mortgaging our children's future. It's wrong. It's immoral. It has to stop." That was my campaign theme. In 2010, I still view myself more Tea Party than Republican party. We we have a lot of big spenders in Republic Republican party as well. And I ran again because of Obamacare, which I knew would not work. And it's not working. That's, by
[00:03:29] the way, that's the problem with Medicaid right now is Obamacare is now called Medicaid expansion. But to answer your question, uh, budget reconciliation was set up by the in the budget act, I think it was 1974. Um, it doesn't work in terms of controlling spending. By the way, nothing ever has. We'll get into that in terms we've never had a process for actually controlling spending, but it allows us to pass a budget and then to
[00:03:56] reconcile the budget. you're able and you can pass a budget that's not a law, but you pass this budget with just 50 votes, 51 votes, majority, and then you can reconcile to that budget also avoiding the Senate filibuster. So, that's the main component. What's weird about it is you pass this budget, but you can only through budget reconciliation address mandatory spending. You can't touch the discretionary spending accounts, which
[00:04:23] is about 25% of our budget. That's one of the one of the ways the budget's gotten completely out of control is you know we put so many things into the mandatory category. You know initially was entitlements social security Medicare Medicaid but we have I would say deviously slid all kinds of discretionary spending into other mandatory that really exploded during COVID where I think other mandatory hit well over$ two trillion dollars. uh last
[00:04:52] fiscal year is about $1.3 trillion. This year it'll be over a trillion. So it went from about $642 billion in 2019. Other mandatory again not social security, Medicare, even Medicaid went from 642 to last year 1.3. This year it's going to be over a trillion dollars and it's going to keep you know pretty much at that level as far as the eye can see. So again, that's a trillion dollars of other non-entitlement spending that
[00:05:18] we never looked at. And that's the whole point about mandatory spending. It's never looked at. Um so anyway, so we can address mandatory spending, not social security, through this reconciliation process. Uh change programs, do whatever we want to do as long as it has a primarily budgetary impact, not changing policy. So you can change policy as long as it has a budgetary impact. I know that's reasonably complex, but it's an
[00:05:45] insane system and it doesn't work. What is the alternative? Well, right now we don't really have one. Uh, again, let's just go through why we've never had a process to control spending. We don't have a balanced budget requirement like states do, and we have the capability of printing money, which we're doing, uh, incurring this enormous debt. So, we don't have a b balanced budget requirement. I didn't realize this until just recently. The
[00:06:11] appropriation committees were literally set up because the authorized committees were big spenders. So, they set up appropriation committees to control spending. That didn't work. The budget act didn't work. Simpson BS didn't work. The budget control act didn't work. It did restrain discretionary spending for a couple years until we weasled our way around it. So, again, we've never had a process to control spending. And one of
[00:06:36] the things I've been arguing in some Wall Street Journal columns is let's use the example of Doge. I come with the private sector. We probably spent more time reviewing my line by line budget for my business. And I think other private sector businesses spend more time analyzing what they're going to spend than Congress spends over the entire federal budget. So we've got to develop a process. Do you shown us how to do it? Go contract by contract.
[00:07:04] expose the grotesque waste, fraud, and abuse. But we got to do that through thousands of lines through the federal budget. But nobody's willing to do it. Nobody's willing to take the time to do the work to do it. They they're doing what they've always done. They exempt most spending. They look at a couple programs. They try and tweak them, try and get a big score out of CBO so they can say, "Hey, look at we saved $1.5
[00:07:25] trillion." And yet that's completely divorced from reality. 1.5 trillion sounds like a lot, but over 10 years it's 150 billion against a $7,000 billion a year budget that only six years ago was $4,400 billion. And if I've got one complaint in terms of the process in the House, it's basically a devoid of reality. We're not talking about the numbers we should be talking about, which is a 10-year deficit projected by CBO of $22
[00:07:54] trillion, averaging $2.2 trillion a year. We don't talk about we focus all on 1.5 trillion and then they're patting themselves in the back that they they didn't even achieve 1.5. I just I just want to make sure senator then that we're on the same page with respect to the math. If this bill passes as is, can the general public take the 33 or 34 odd trillion that we have in debt? Should we add 22 and say we'll be at 58 trillion
[00:08:22] by 2035? Is that the right math or the wrong math? Uh that understates it. Uh now they'll talk about dynamic scoring and I believe in dynamic scoring as well. But in this case, you take a look at the tax cuts that President Trump is proposing. That's not they're not going to generate growth. They're just going to reduce the deficit. The CBO projection I'm looking at assumes we're going to gain another $4 trillion from
[00:08:46] increasing taxes. So again, we may not may not get that $4 trillion, but no matter what, the CBO projection right now that is adding another $22 trillion to our debt, it certainly would add at least that. I would argue you'd probably add another three or four trillion. So it's not going to be 59 trillion. It's going to be more like 62 63 trillion. And the CBO scores assume the interest rate on the federal debt, I believe, is
[00:09:13] an average of 3.6%. And now we're seeing the 30-year trading above 5%, meaning that if we trade up to 5% for the cost of debt for the federal government, we're probably going to add another $5 trillion of incremental interest expense over the period, another half trillion a year on average over the next 10 years. Yeah. No, I I I would agree the current CBO projection, that's what I'm talking about here. Uh, you know, going from 37
[00:09:40] to 59 trillion in debt is a rosy is, you know, the rosy scenario that that's as good as we're going to do. So, we're simply we're simply this does not mean the moment in terms of what we have to do. Senator, let me just ask I I think one point of clarification on your earlier comment which I think would be important for the audience. what has been put under mandatory that should be discretionary. It covers the entire
[00:10:06] gamut of federal spending, education, you know, welfare, food stamps, uh, uh, veterans benefits. Again, they've just transferred that into mandatory spending. So, it's completely out of sight, out of mind, unaccountable. When it sits in discretionary, maybe just help folks understand what does it mean if it sits in discretionary. Does that mean that then the administration under the president has the authority to spend
[00:10:30] up to that amount to administer the law to administer the statutes but doesn't necessarily have to and the mandatory demands that the capital goes out. Just help us understand for the audience what the difference is. Well, discretionary is actually supposedly passed each year through an appropriation process which is completely broken. We don't pass individual appropriation bills. We generally at best uh which is awful mini
[00:10:56] buses or omnibuses. You know these are these multi,000page uh bills that get dropped on our desks and we have to vote on them literally within 24 to 48 hours. Nobody reads them. Nobody knows what's in them. Uh that process is pretty broken down. Right now we are operating for this fiscal year under a continuing resolution which tweaks a few things but is basically spending at last year's levels on all those appropriated
[00:11:20] accounts. So again, that's about 25% of our budget. Then 75% is in in the mandatory accounts, the the entitlements, and just other mandatory spending. So the arithmetic indicates we're entering into a debt death spiral in the United States. With the interest rates climbing, the deficit climbing, and we then need to spend more money to pay our interest on the existing debt, that increases the deficit. We need to
[00:11:45] borrow more. The debt spirals up. uh interest rates climb and this becomes an insurmountable hill to climb. As you have the conversation with members of the Republican party, what's the point of view? What is the motivating factor for business as usual? Why is it so difficult to get folks to see the basic arithmetic in front of them? Well, let me give you an example from about three years ago. Uh this was after COVID and
[00:12:12] you know on bipartisan basis went on a massive spending spree in 2020 but then the bid administration just continued that. Uh so you know we were in omnibous spending debate and for the first time even though the Republican Senate conference we have a resolution against eararks. McConnell is negotiating an omnibous spending bill and all of a sudden we're members are are sucking down ear marks. So I asked my colleagues
[00:12:38] at that time I said hey anybody know how much in total we spent last year in the federal government room was dead silent I went out to Washington press corp asked the same question I mean hey anybody know how much we spent last year and one reporter said it was over a trillion dollars no that's just discretionary spending the answer was something like $6.3 trillion because we had gone from 4.4 4 trillion 2019 up to 6.5 and we've
[00:13:03] never looked back. Right? And the analogy I used is no family if they had an illness borrowed $50,000 to pay medical bills if they got well the next year. They would keep borrowing $50,000 to spend at that level. But that's exactly what we've done. But the point of my story was nobody knew in total how much we spend because we never even talk about it. Never even talked about. So So that's out of sight, out of mind. So it's
[00:13:27] completely out of control. I mean, I am the guys, you know, starting with my Wall Street Journal column of January 1st about return to a prepandemic prepandemic level spending. I mean, I've been hammering the Senate Republican conference on a weekly basis and just, you know, Ed Naz quite honestly. What's the push back? What are they? They just throw they've thrown the towel. They go, "Well, it's too hard. I mean, that's
[00:13:49] unrealistic. You just can't do it." Even though I lay out Well, these are So, let me just tell you you how I laid out my pre- pandemic levels of spending. This is during between Christmas and New Year's. I'm trying to figure out how can I communicate this? You know, how can I justify this? What kind of control can we put on things? So, I I literally went back in history. I went back to Clinton in 1998, Obama in 2014, and Trump in
[00:14:11] 2019. And I exempted social security, Medicare, and interest. You know, spend what you needed to spend. But all other actual outlays in those three years, I increase them by inflation and population. You know, reasonable control, right? It's what we should have. We don't have a balanced budget amendment. At least we should have some reasonable control over outlays. Population growth inflation would make sense. Senator, if we take your math and
[00:14:36] say that we are headed to, let's take the midpoint $65 trillion of debt by 2035. I think it's fair to say that the bond market will have a negative reaction to that. And what Dave just talked about, which is a 5% borrowing rate for America, could be on the low side. And that's the that's the spiral that he's talking about. On Friday, Secretary Bessant tried to get in front of this and his commentary was we will grow our way out.
[00:15:11] Can you talk to us about what he means by that and what the boundary conditions need to be to grow our way out? First of all, by by my calculation, our average interest rate over the last 50 years on government debt is about 5.8%. So that that's 50 years and we're we're down here about three somewhere around 3%. Um those are not exact calculations. Uh listen, that is the hope of all of us. I mean I I will absolutely agree that the the number one
[00:15:40] component of a solution to our enormous debt investment problem is economic growth. We have to grow the economy. But here's the problem is when the government is sucking out of the private sector all you know we're the ones borrowing the money so there's not a whole lot of money left for businesses in the private sector not enough capital there. Now you can print more money uh but then that sparks inflation and that
[00:16:09] of course erodess everybody's balance sheet. It also makes our debt debt less less expensive as well. But because we're so in debt, that drives up the interest rates and again it ends up being a death and debt spiral. So So nobody can predict this. But I mean that's just the the wishful thinking of people putting forward a policy a one big beautiful bill that doesn't live up to its name but actually actually
[00:16:33] exacerbates the problem. What are the tools then in your toolbox? So you get back in the next week or two and you talk to your colleagues and now it's on your desk. How do you start getting your arms around this? What do you do starting on Monday or next Monday? So I try to lay out the basic numbers. That's what I was talking about. You know my prepandemic goal of spending Clinton if you use that process go from 1.7 to 5.5