[00:28:16] to do it all? And if as long as we have that, we're going to win. And if we don't, China's going to win. Where it comes from, I really don't care. But the reality with nuclear is, you know, we can't wait till 2035 for electrons to turn on. That's just a non-starter. So as much as we have to pay for the sins of the past, and the sins of the past is we turned all that stuff off idiotically to your point because of some, you know,
[00:28:37] crying child, but now we have to pay for the conditions on the ground. I have a different question, which is I want to go back to Dave's question on Doge. Senator, which is there was a $9 billion recision bill that went to the House and unfortunately it didn't make a lot of progress. What is the future of Doge as you see it? First of all, it it was beneficial for no other reason than it exposed how oblivious and ignorant Congress was of
[00:29:07] all this waste, fraud, and abuse. Okay? I mean, that has value right there. It should have embarrassed every member of Congress, all these department heads that this kind of spending, this kind of crap was going on and they weren't doing oversight on it. They weren't taking a look at it. And but and I I tried getting Elon's attention quite honestly about you know, can give me somebody in Doge that I can work with so that as
[00:29:31] soon as you identify the spending, we can connect it to an appropriation account. We can connect it to a mandatory spending account so we can actually codify it. He he didn't seem to have the time and quite honestly in a personal conversation he said well we don't have to do that well we do have to do that and so you know we we've been hammering Russ vote you know send us a recision package you know finally he
[00:29:51] bundles up $9 billion when on I think the last time I looked at Doge's website they were up to 165 I think it's higher than that now they're kind of they have fallen short of the goal listen and I'm not criticizing for them that for that at all but the fact of the matter is it has to be codified just putting on the website is valuable but we got to bank the savings and so anything that's mandatory has got to be done through
[00:30:16] reconciliation otherwise got to be done from recision you you got to get the public support for this I don't know why they haven't done it so can you just explain that to us like what what we see on the website is that not saved it's there's a question they've stopped contracts they're no longer spending money that way but the question is whether the president on his own can impound those funds. So they may not be
[00:30:43] spent, but they're just going to be, you know, sitting out there as, you know, unallocated uh spending to be spent sometime in the future unless you resin them. And again, that's the beauty of recision reconciliation. We don't need Democrats to help us there. We can do that with simple majorities, both the House and the Senate. And again, it'll be pretty depressing. President Trump in this first administration sent up a $15
[00:31:06] billion recision package and has voted down in the Senate. Two Republican senators vote against it. And my guess is they paid no political price for doing that. Any Republican that voted would vote against the recision package ought to pay a pretty huge political price in voting that thing down. But it's going to take presidential leadership. He's got to be f he's got to be focusing on that. And and I'm sorry,
[00:31:28] I don't think President Trump, he's doing all kinds of great things. He's not focused on reducing spending from what why do you think that is? Have you talked with his staff or him directly about it? Was this not as apparent to him and his staff as it is to you? I I just think they are overwhelmed. I mean, you see all all the activity and this just hasn't hit his radar yet. Uh it's going to hit his radar here this next the next few weeks
[00:31:54] because So again, he he liked the concept the slogan of one beautiful bill. I don't think he was overly concerned or understanding what the details were. You know, I'm I'm going to force him to take a look at the details. I'm I'm going to force a discussion on stranding. It feels like we're about to enter some form of like people conclave where you and your Senate colleagues are going to go into a room. There's either
[00:32:16] going to be white smoke or black smoke. So, can you can you walk us through like what what is the mechanics now? like what will it be like when you when Senator Thun brings you together, you all caucus or how how does this work now for you? So, so we've been in finance committee, we've been working on these things, but again, we're all it's all about scores, right? I've got to point this out. You hear these scores, right?
[00:32:36] But they're divorced from they're not tied to anything. It's like, okay, I got a score of 65. Well, good. I mean, it's good if you're golfing. It's awful if you're bowling. So, you get all these scores. They're divorced from reality. So again, the the process is complete. It's it's by and large a charade. Okay? Somebody else is going to write this thing and it's going to be shut down people's throats. I mean, so
[00:32:59] what I intend to do is I intend to open it up and bring this to the light of day. I've been doing it since January 1st, writing about giving, you know, three prepandemic levels, you know, three options on prepandemic levels of spending. next column. Here's a process, a line by line deep dive forensic audit. You know, I'd love to take the Doge team right now and just bring them over. Let's focus on this. Let's spend months
[00:33:24] doing this, but we'll need time. We'll need a two-step process, you know, and then, you know, literally my my last column just kind of put it all together, the big numbers, and this is why we have to do it. But but again, you you were following the debate in the House. Did you ever hear $2.2 2 trillion average deficit being projected. $22 trillion, you know, $59 trillion in debt. Nobody. It's just $1.5 trillion. Oh, like that's
[00:33:47] a lot. I mean, it's it's it's it's almost meaningless. It's a rounding error. So, I'm going to force this debate. That's what that's why I'm on your show here today. That's why I'm going to be doing Jake Tapper tomorrow. You know, I'm bring the numbers to the four. Senator, is there a a hard line that you'll have that if we don't get this deficit level to X because that's the focus, that's the objective, that's
[00:34:11] the primary objective rather at this point in time in this republic that you'll say I'm a no vote and have you been that declarative about your position on this? I've been pretty upfront. You know, the first goal of this Republican budget reconciliation should be don't add to the deficit because that ought to be the first goal. Uh beyond that, what I've always said is I want a commitment to return to a reasonable prepandemic level spending
[00:34:37] and a process to achieve and maintain it. I'm I'm reasonably open. Yeah, I recognize we have to get the votes. So, I always say I don't have a hard number, but what I've done is I've laid out these options. And right now, the hard number accepted by and expected by a lot of senators enough to not pass this until we achieve it is $6.5 trillion of spending in 2026. And I can I can you walk through how you get to that point, but that's
[00:35:05] kind of the number. Right now, we're expected to spend about 7.3 trillion next year. So that implies about 8008 trillion in deficit reduction rather than 1.5 trillion that the House has in their meager uh House reconciliation bill. So it's a pretty big delta. What scoring do you go off of? Is that the CBO scoring that you would use to make that estimate? Some of the conversation that we've heard is that the revenue
[00:35:34] effects of some of the new programs are not taken into account fully. That there may be revenue coming in from tariffs. There may be revenue coming in from the sale of the Trump immigration card at 5 million a pop and there's a limited effect of the tax cuts on GDP growth etc. So there's a lot of arguments to be made to make the line seem a little more blurry than perhaps the scoring might indicate. That's why to try and simplify
[00:35:58] things. Okay, I'm focusing on spending. We went from 4.4 to it'll be 7.3 next year. You know, let's bring it down to a reasonable prepandemic level 6.5. spending, spending, spending. I voted for President Trump because I wanted him to defeat the deep state. You don't defeat the deep state by continuing to fund it at Biden's levels. So the the minute you start bringing revenue, nobody can project that. Nobody knows
[00:36:22] exactly what the impact's going to be. And so that starts, you know, muddying the waters. So I focus on spending. Uh I don't really want to fund the deep state. Okay? I I would like to bring certainty to the economy. I'd like the trade wars to end so we can bring that level of stability. I don't want to increase taxes. So again, my approach would be multiple step. Border defense, bank the savings, take whatever good
[00:36:46] work the house did, bank that. Extend current tax law is awful as complex it is. Just extend that. Increase the debt ceiling for a year to put pressure on us to come back and do the work on on the spending. And then we can bring up President Trump's taxes as well. I mean, I would keep this as simple as possible. get it passed and start doing the work. That would be my approach. Do you think that there's any upside or legislative resolve to
[00:37:13] think about monetizing assets? So, for example, Secretary Lutnik has talked about the vast resources. Secretary Bergam has talked about as well, the vast resources that America has, whether it should, you know, we should consider thinking about monetizing some of those things, selling federal land, selling drilling rights, selling royalty rights. What do you think about that as an incremental way of softening the landing
[00:37:35] here? I would say the only reason I'm not in a full-fledged panic is because people like Art Laugher do point out we have vast wealth. I mean so our debt our debt to GDP ratio is probably not the the most relevant. It is relevant for inflation that type thing but you know debt to total assets is probably the more relevant. So, so we we literally we can afford this level of debt, but you have to you do have to compare it to
[00:38:01] income as well and our ability to service the debt and the debt spiral. So, again, this all ends up being a lot of different uh factors coming into what's going to make it possible for people to live. And again, inflation is probably the one metric that we need to avoid. And I think that's the thing that I'm most concerned about in terms of death and spending. I'm I'm not concerned about America going bankrupt because we have
[00:38:26] this vast wealth. Um I'm concerned about us being insolvent in sparking massive inflation and just wiping out people's savings, making it very impossible for them to live and retire. What do you think is the future through these next 16 months of bills and the impact? To your point, there's a lot of people that came together in a coalition to vote for accountability to defund and to starve the deep state. And if we continue to
[00:38:53] feed it, it seems like a traditionalist default. We're going back to the way things were. Can you talk to us about that and what your thoughts are about that? Well, I'm highly concerned about just the conservative movement. Uh I think Trump is a completely unique political figure. I think he definitely did drive turnout. he's expanded, you know, certainly our base, which by the way is one of the reasons I'm I am
[00:39:17] sympathetic to what you're talking about in terms of the tax cuts he's proposed. I mean, we need to focus on the working men and women of this country that is really the the Trump coalition. Um, but I'm concerned about how effective Democrats are, the coalition they have made up of the media, primarily social media companies, that type of thing. Their relentlessness of letting all these undocumented people in this
[00:39:38] country who are voting, I mean, we're starting to see that type of fraud. um that are you know they they are trying to cheat. I think they do cheat in voting. I think they we don't have an real feeling in terms of how you know the order of magnitude of their cheating. Uh but a quick example of you know we had that important Supreme Court race here. Elon Musk came in here did some pretty innovative things. Spent a
[00:40:02] lot of money here. Uh the liberal candidate got 78% of of Kla Harris's vote. The conservative candidate got 62% of Donald Trump's score. Even though, you know, we were all out there saying how important this is. If you don't want to see President Trump impeached by a Democratc controlled Congress in the next Congress, you got to get out and support President Trump. That didn't resonate. Again, 78% of Democrats came
[00:40:27] out of 62% of Republicans. Do you think there's a risk that MAGA becomes a version of, you know, Tea Party 2.0 where it starts with energy, but then there's just the gravitational pull of the establishment is just too strong for the rebels to fight off. No, I think the greatest danger of MAGA is it's really tied toward one individual. You know, Tea Party movement was tied toward the vision of America, freedom, you know,
[00:40:54] debt and desolate, not mortgage or kids future. I think that survived. I mean, they did a pretty good job of marginalizing Tea Party, but you know, we're we're alive and well. We're, you know, we are the the House Freedom Caucus. You know, we're the the people that are going to stop this until we just get a much better bill in the Senate. So, we're we're still alive and well, but in terms of voters, I mean, the Tea Party pretty well merged with
[00:41:16] Republican party. Uh I'm not sure all the mega mega voters are just disgusted by the whole process as I as am I. And they're much more likely to sit on the couch unless their guy is on the ballot. Do you think that our model of representative democracy is broken and has the same sort of inevitable outcome that others have had in the past that ultimately people realize they can vote themselves all the money and they do and
[00:41:43] the system breaks? I mean like do like if you were to go back and be a founding father, what would you have done differently here? And or am I off on this? And I'm No, I'm not sure you uh you are off at all. No, I think we may have already passed that hinge point. That's my concern. I mean, people ask me, are you optimistic? No, I'm I'm a pessimist. I'm looking around. That that is the death nail of a of a de democracy
[00:42:06] or Republican. And a majority of the voters realize, hey, I can vote myself benefits. Don't don't worry about the debt and des. We can print money. No, that that's what brings down uh everything. I mean, this is this is what I've noticed is Democrats, Republicans, populists or elitists, whatever side of the spectrum on whatever dimensional category you want to assess an individual or representative on, at the end of the
[00:42:33] day, they're just trying to use the government to deploy capital to their constituents as best they can. I mean, that's the mechanism of the electorate at this point. And just hearing your words resonates with me because I've made a number of visits to DC in the last couple of months since the inauguration and there was a lot of proclaim about Doge and it's a new day in Washington and I felt a degree of optimism and hope that things were
[00:42:55] changing in DC but every member of Congress I sat down with was a a disappointing conversation that reflects the views that you just shared that they don't really understand what's going on and they don't really care. It's not a priority to solve the fiscal crisis that we're in and they're not willing to admit it. It's like a stage 4 terminal patient not willing to admit that they're sick and they need to to take
[00:43:17] some therapy. Well, the the the data that backs us up is, and I wrote this in my Wall Street Journal column, 1930, the federal government spent about 3.5% of our GDP. 3.5. State and local governments were about 9.1. That that was the foundational premise of America. government close to governed where it's more effective, more efficient, more accountable. Now we're spending close to 24% the federal level. States are
[00:43:42] probably somewhere 12 to 15. Haven't looked that recent. And as Lord Actton pointed out, you know, power corrupts. Yeah, government is power. That's mean that is really the definition of government is power. So it gets corrupted and it's been corrupted. And I don't know, we're, you know, I fear we're past the point of no return. Uh why did I run again for a third term? As disgusted as I am in this process, a I
[00:44:06] couldn't turn my back on this country. I can't give up on it. I'm not overly optimistic. And again, it's not just the as government grows, your freedom recedes. As government grows, you get more and more people dependent on it. Well, that's right. And they're not they're not doing things productive. You don't have a vibrant economy. That's right. You know, it's just it's a it's it all all in all is destructive of
[00:44:28] society. to the point about your numbers, Senator, you know, and I've talked about this on our show where I've tried to estimate what percent of Americans gain their employment through a government paycheck, a servicing the government, or a government contractor. And I think it's probably at 50% today. So 50% of Americans are either working for a public agency, uh, federal, state, or local, or working for the contractor