[00:14:11] 2019. And I exempted social security, Medicare, and interest. You know, spend what you needed to spend. But all other actual outlays in those three years, I increase them by inflation and population. You know, reasonable control, right? It's what we should have. We don't have a balanced budget amendment. At least we should have some reasonable control over outlays. Population growth inflation would make sense. Senator, if we take your math and
[00:14:36] say that we are headed to, let's take the midpoint $65 trillion of debt by 2035. I think it's fair to say that the bond market will have a negative reaction to that. And what Dave just talked about, which is a 5% borrowing rate for America, could be on the low side. And that's the that's the spiral that he's talking about. On Friday, Secretary Bessant tried to get in front of this and his commentary was we will grow our way out.
[00:15:11] Can you talk to us about what he means by that and what the boundary conditions need to be to grow our way out? First of all, by by my calculation, our average interest rate over the last 50 years on government debt is about 5.8%. So that that's 50 years and we're we're down here about three somewhere around 3%. Um those are not exact calculations. Uh listen, that is the hope of all of us. I mean I I will absolutely agree that the the number one
[00:15:40] component of a solution to our enormous debt investment problem is economic growth. We have to grow the economy. But here's the problem is when the government is sucking out of the private sector all you know we're the ones borrowing the money so there's not a whole lot of money left for businesses in the private sector not enough capital there. Now you can print more money uh but then that sparks inflation and that
[00:16:09] of course erodess everybody's balance sheet. It also makes our debt debt less less expensive as well. But because we're so in debt, that drives up the interest rates and again it ends up being a death and debt spiral. So So nobody can predict this. But I mean that's just the the wishful thinking of people putting forward a policy a one big beautiful bill that doesn't live up to its name but actually actually
[00:16:33] exacerbates the problem. What are the tools then in your toolbox? So you get back in the next week or two and you talk to your colleagues and now it's on your desk. How do you start getting your arms around this? What do you do starting on Monday or next Monday? So I try to lay out the basic numbers. That's what I was talking about. You know my prepandemic goal of spending Clinton if you use that process go from 1.7 to 5.5
[00:17:01] trillion. That's how you plus up there. That's been Obama would be 6.2 to Trump's 2019 6.5. So now now you've got a a baseline budget. You've always heard these Republican members of Congress running for office saying we're going to go to zerobased budget. They're not even willing to go to 5.5 to 6.5 level baseline of budget. So again, go what is the process that just might work? Doge has kind of shown it to us, you know,
[00:17:27] line by line. You have to scrutinize all this. It takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of time. And that's why I've always argued for a multiple approach here, multiple step. Provide the border funding. Uh I would just extend current tax law. I mean, again, I would have voted for that. If we had been smart enough to use current policy back then, we wouldn't be even having this conversation. Extend current tax law.
[00:17:50] Takes an automatic massive tax increase off the table. Increase the debt ceiling enough for a year to keep pressure on the process to do the work to go line by line. Expose spending. I've got to believe when you've gone from 4,400 billion to $7,000 billion worth of spending, if you start scrutinizing that line by line, there would literally be hundreds of billions of dollars that the public wouldn't even know we're not
[00:18:16] spending. The only people who would know would be the grifters who are sucking down the pork. Mhm. So, when you say the folks in the Republican party that aren't willing to do the hard work, it's just so obvious how big of a crisis we are in and everyone's kind of being blind to it. So, I'm just trying to understand what is it that's keeping the blindfold on. Is it that there are donors, that there are constituents?
[00:18:37] I'll give you an example. A couple years ago, I went in for the Farm Bill review with the Senate A Committee 2012, so a long time ago. And we started talking about one of the agencies in the USDA and they have 10,000 employees and said, you know, does why does this make sense in a digital age? And the answer was it doesn't. It's like, well, why is the agency still running and employing all these people? Well, because the senators
[00:19:01] don't want to lose the jobs in their state because that's 10,000 jobs split amongst roughly seven states and it's really important to those seven states to keep those jobs. Is that the motivation that there's economic dollars flowing into the states that keeps the representatives and the senators from making the tough decisions? Is it that they're getting donor dollars? What's the real motivation here that's keeping
[00:19:22] everyone from tackling reality? Well, again, as I pointed out, most don't even recognize the full reality. They don't they don't know the numbers. I've I've heard it said, I didn't hear McConnell say it personally, but I've heard him say, "Show me a member of Congress who ever lost the election because they spent too much money." So, there's no public pressure not to spend. You know, people love tax cuts. People love the free money. You
[00:19:49] know, we collectively as a society are whistling by the graveyard. Nobody wants to say that this is unsustainable because you to fix it is painful. I mean you you you are going to have to reduce spending and then you're very open to the the political accusations as you know coming in we're trying to slash Medicaid for disabled children. No, we're trying to preserve it for disabled children, try and get the able-bodied
[00:20:15] childless uh working age adults back to work and and on private sector healthcare. Uh but again, that's that's a more difficult argument to make. So it it's just the way that the process just plows on. We've never, as I said, there's never been a process to actually control spending. So this way we've always done it. You come up to these deadlines, you put everything into one big bill, you give people, you know,
[00:20:38] things that you have to vote for. You don't want to default on the debt. You don't want to increase taxes. So, you know, those elements you bundle up with a bunch of crap and you twist people's arms to pay for it having and keeping them basically ignorant because you never talk about the the the massive numbers the massive problem that we're really in. I mean, people kind of know it, but as long as the the press isn't
[00:21:01] reporting on, as long as the press isn't connecting the dots that the massive desk is spending is why you can't afford things, why your dollar you held in 2019 is only worth 80 cents versus the bucket should be. By the way, a dollar you held in 1998 is worth 51 cents. Okay? So, we again, we don't teach people there's no there's no public pressure in terms of reducing spending or reducing the deficit. There's just virtually none. I mean, you
[00:21:28] know, from conservatives right now, I'm getting it all the time. Boy, make sure that you make no tax on tips permanent. Make sure you make no tax on overtime permanent. So, well, first of all, we probably shouldn't even be doing either of those. By the way, I'm all for no tax on cash tips. You know, we can't can't collect it anyway, so don't even try. I'm all for that. But you got to recognize these other tax cuts. They're
[00:21:49] not going to grow the economy. They're not going to focus on the one component that Besson's talking about that we have to grow our economy. I actually am very supportive of the no tax on tips, no tax on overtime. The monetary cost of those things are relatively not that meaningful. And so it has a broad-based positive impact with a lower cost is actually the reason why we should do it. The thing that I was sort of like
[00:22:14] puzzled by when 50 people or 60 people are constructing something, you get this bill that comes out of the house which has the things that the president asked for, but with all of these other Christmas tree ornaments hanging from it and it's impossible to figure out what's actually going on. Well, I don't even think it's even 50 and 60 people constructing this. I think it's a much smaller group of people and then you
[00:22:34] maybe have 50 or 60 chiming in on one issue or another. Let me push back on overtime with you though. You know, I ran a plastics operation continuous shift. If you're gonna have you work 247, you need four shifts. So, part of the problem with no tax on overtime, first of all, no tax on some overtime. So, that's going to add to the regulatory burden. I want wouldn't want to be the accounting clerk having to keep track of that, but you know, I know
[00:22:57] computers, it's easier to do so. But, in public service employee units, they will they refuse to go to four shifts because they like the overtime. they should be forced to go to four shifts because they burn out. Pay them more. But from my standpoint, having run a continuous shift operation, I think there's enough incentive paying time and a half or double time on Sunday for people to work. Uh income is income. I don't want
[00:23:21] to segregate. I I don't want to socially or economically engineer through the tax code. And that's just part of that economic engineering through the tax code. I love the fact we're focusing on working men and women. Great. But I would rather simplify the tax code for them and and overall lower their tax burden. But again, lower the rates, broaden the base. But we're not doing that. We lowered the rates and we made
[00:23:42] it more complex. So yeah, we did not simplify the tax code in 2017. One of the reasons I actually wanted a two-step process was to take time to simplify and rationalize our tax code. Can we talk about other things that didn't make it in that we thought were going to get in there? Another way to generate revenue would have been to close the carried interest loophole. I don't know if you have any points of view on that. Well,
[00:24:04] I' I've talked to numerous people who benefit from carried interest. I always ask them, can you explain to me why that's not or ordinary income? And they can't. It is ordinary income. Uh speaking to other ones that are pretty big into it, they do make a pretty powerful case that, you know, all all these deals, all these structures, all these business arrangements are already structured that way. You can eliminate
[00:24:26] that break and it's really not going to raise any revenue. They make reasonably convincing case there, too. So that's kind of where we at on that which is sort of like at a at an impass. Yeah. My guess is just not going to happen, right? And kind of going the overtime. It's just not that big a revenue generator one way the other. Might might make you feel good. Could could screw up the way deals are made. That's is it really worth messing with?
[00:24:53] One of the things that Elon has been talking about recently is that we could be on the precipice of an energy deficit starting next year where we need every form of power possible to be generating as many electrons as possible. And so solar, wind, coal, nat gas, nuclear, there was a bunch of provisions here that changed the tax incentives. What's your thoughts on all of those that may change the landscape of electron availability? Well, I think
[00:25:27] it's uh insane that we've been shutting down coal fired electrical generation. We need a lot of it. I would really focus on nuclear myself. I think that is, you know, if you're concerned about climate change, and yeah, I'm not. We'll adapt. Um, but nuclear would be the the thing we ought to be pushing. Uh, I really don't want to subsidize energy production. I I don't want to subsidize anything. Again, I want a simple and
[00:25:50] rational tax code. Uh so my my approach would always be to simplify those things and I don't want to pull the rug out from under people. I mean if we've subsidized things and people made investment based on certain things kind of respect that the comment that I made to my colleagues is FK came out with a report. It said 81% of the incremental energy that was generated in the United States were backed by some form of tax credits. This
[00:26:16] is not to judge. It's just meant to say that financial actors go to where the incentives are. And if we change them and we take 81% of this incremental energy offline and you can't get an act gas turbine, you know, for example, I'm going to announce on Monday we're building a 1 gawatt data center that I'm funding in Arizona. I can't get an act gas turbine until 2032. I can get nuclear from the state of Arizona, but that's not broadly
[00:26:39] available everywhere. And so there's these practical investment decisions that the financial community wants to make to keep America at the forefront. It's a little murkier today unless the Senate understands these nuances and helps us because if we can't make these investments, then we're just not going to do it. I say Congress in general doesn't understand what you're talking about. Again, I said I don't want to
[00:27:02] pull the rug out from other people. I understand investment because I was in business. Um but again, I I want to move towards a more simple system and and again, it's insane what government, you know, all the green new energy thing. It it misallocates capital. Take a look what's happening in Europe in Germany and stuff. They're artificially driving up the cost of power for what? Okay. I mean, it's it's a fantasy. It's it's a
[00:27:28] self-inflicted wound. It's we spent something like five or six trillion dollars globally on climate change. Again, whether you believe it or not, we haven't bent the needle. That's just five or six trillion dollars basically wasted. So, again, I recognize the fact we've wasted a lot of money. We've incentivized people for certain type of power. The solution would be quit doing it. long term and let the marketplace
[00:27:49] provide as as much energy cheap as possible. Again, protecting the environment. I don't want pollution, but the whole climate change thing is I care about electron surplus and having an infinite supply of electrons, which is effectively the threshold issue between us and whatever form of abundance we're going to find with robots, with going to Mars, with building AGI. The threshold issue is just do we have enough energy
[00:28:16] to do it all? And if as long as we have that, we're going to win. And if we don't, China's going to win. Where it comes from, I really don't care. But the reality with nuclear is, you know, we can't wait till 2035 for electrons to turn on. That's just a non-starter. So as much as we have to pay for the sins of the past, and the sins of the past is we turned all that stuff off idiotically to your point because of some, you know,
[00:28:37] crying child, but now we have to pay for the conditions on the ground. I have a different question, which is I want to go back to Dave's question on Doge. Senator, which is there was a $9 billion recision bill that went to the House and unfortunately it didn't make a lot of progress. What is the future of Doge as you see it? First of all, it it was beneficial for no other reason than it exposed how oblivious and ignorant Congress was of
[00:29:07] all this waste, fraud, and abuse. Okay? I mean, that has value right there. It should have embarrassed every member of Congress, all these department heads that this kind of spending, this kind of crap was going on and they weren't doing oversight on it. They weren't taking a look at it. And but and I I tried getting Elon's attention quite honestly about you know, can give me somebody in Doge that I can work with so that as
[00:29:31] soon as you identify the spending, we can connect it to an appropriation account. We can connect it to a mandatory spending account so we can actually codify it. He he didn't seem to have the time and quite honestly in a personal conversation he said well we don't have to do that well we do have to do that and so you know we we've been hammering Russ vote you know send us a recision package you know finally he
[00:29:51] bundles up $9 billion when on I think the last time I looked at Doge's website they were up to 165 I think it's higher than that now they're kind of they have fallen short of the goal listen and I'm not criticizing for them that for that at all but the fact of the matter is it has to be codified just putting on the website is valuable but we got to bank the savings and so anything that's mandatory has got to be done through
[00:30:16] reconciliation otherwise got to be done from recision you you got to get the public support for this I don't know why they haven't done it so can you just explain that to us like what what we see on the website is that not saved it's there's a question they've stopped contracts they're no longer spending money that way but the question is whether the president on his own can impound those funds. So they may not be