[00:56:30] to do here. But I can't we can't do it alone. I mean, I can't do it. I don't have the budget expertise. So, it really is it's getting the commitment of the president that he he is determined to not keep funding the deep state buying levels, return to a reasonable prepandemic level spending, and then get his OM fully behind this effort. This got to be every this got to be the biggest effort on budget ever. and then
[00:56:54] set the thing up, show it works, and then hopefully maintain it over the years. I I I can't think of anything. We've tried all this other stuff and never worked. Well, look, I hope you find a path towards that goal, Senator. I think it's a critical time. And speaking as an American, appreciate your resiliency in the face of what I'm sure is a lot of political pressure and tension right now in trying to make sure
[00:57:19] that the right thing is done here for the long term of American prosperity. So, thank you for your service. Thank you for the work you do. We appreciate it. I appreciate you having me on. I I will say one thing that is different about me than others. I'd rather go home. That that's a significant difference when when you'd rather I'd rather return to my private sector life than keep serving here in this total
[00:57:42] dysfunction. Uh that that is that is what again I can't be pressured by President Trump. I I can't I mean, he's not going to flip me just by the force of his argument or any kind of political pressure. There's there's just no pressure he can apply to me. He's willing to sit down with me, look at the numbers, acknowledge them, working forward in a reasonable plan forward. Uh that's that's the only way he's going to
[00:58:06] get my support. Well, I hope that there are others that get into the same mindset as you. I've always found it off-putting that folks choose to be politicians as a career rather than rotating in and out of doing this as a service and then going back into the private sector where I think that a lot of the misalignments and conditioning can be avoided. So yeah, appreciate that mindset and and thank you. Thank you
[00:58:32] Senator for your cander. Thanks for having me on transparency. Thank you. I mean my conclusion today is similar to how I finished the pod yesterday which is concern that the bond market is not going to take this well. I do think that that puts a lot of pressure on America and I think it's going to put pressure on private industry and what will happen as a result is not necessarily that we go bankrupt or whatever but there is no
[00:58:58] clear dividing line between public and private industry and I don't think that that's a great outcome. Not to mention the value of everyone's assets. They go to zero. They go to zero. Well, I mean look like but but as this the senator made the point a dollar in 2019 is worth 80 cents today because of the inflation we've experienced from the rampid spending since co and if that continues which is the steady state that we've now
[00:59:24] assumed is we're now assuming to continue emergency spending as if it's the kind of standard then that same level of decline in value of a dollar or decline in value of any American asset will continue and it will only accelerate. And I think the worry is that in 10 years, you know, a dollar is worth 30 cents. Yeah. And that makes it harder for everyone to prosper in America. The ability to buy a home, the ability to have greater wealth, the
[00:59:52] ability to improve your conditions and your livelihoods are significantly diminished. That's the biggest consequence that we've seen many times over the last couple of centuries as countries have gone through the same cycle that the American uh republic now finds itself in. This is kind of one of those last stands of the Alamo, if you will, because the arithmetic gets to the point that it becomes unstoppable. This
[01:00:14] train is gone. So anyway, I I thought it was great to have some time with the senator to talk about it today. Again, when when we have these conversations, Chimath, obviously, we're not fully endorsing all the views and points of view. It's good to hear from people. It's good to understand their point of view. Let them speak and have the conversation. There are things that we'll agree with, things that we don't
[01:00:34] agree with. But I think on the the fiscal condition of the United States, I've been pretty clear, pretty vocal on my point of view on this. And on this particular point, I think the senator is a very important voice. I think it's really it's really important for America to let private citizens have agency and do the things that they think they should be doing. And I think that if you move to a place where we become fiscally
[01:00:57] crippled and reliant on the government, that's a horrible outcome. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Uh well, I'm glad we did this. I know uh it was a push to get it done on a Saturday, but I thought it was uh really worthwhile to give the senators a I already I already made love to Nat twice this morning, so I'm from All the boxes have been checked. But what did you do after those six minutes? Did you have played with the kids? Played with the
[01:01:19] kids for an hour. Yeah. So I've done everything I need to walk the dogs. Good. Yeah. All right, bro. We'll talk. Love you. [Music] I'm going all in.