[00:15:35] they're more spread out, suburban, no highrises, etc. Those two together we think can cover 50 plus% of our delivery uh TAM so to speak. But then there's another 50% that we're going to have to work on in terms of the first and the last mile, you know, coming out of the restaurant and then getting the the food into your apartment as well. Humans take care of their own first and last mile, but you need something to take care of
[00:16:03] the first and last mile of the food. That's where the challenge is going to come in. And we're working with a number of players to see how we can get that No text first and last mile for food. I want to talk to you for a minute, if I may, about the balance sheet. Um, one of the great, you know, sort of early uh insights we had at Uber was around profitability and the press and the narrative was, "Oh, Uber could never be profitable." And I
[00:16:27] would talk to TK about it and and and William and all the Josh in New York and they're like, "Yeah, we could flip it at any moment in time to $2 more a ride. We would lose no rides and it would be wildly profitable." And in fact, under your stewardship, Uber has become a money printing machine to the point at which you announced a $20 billion stock buyback. Yes. And I saw it and I said, "Wow, this is just incredible." However,
[00:16:49] did you tweet about it by chance? I might have. I might once in a while I'll retweet you and and give you a little shine. Um, but I did have this thought that um, and I had Chris from Neuro on the program and you have this great partnership to put 20,000 Lucids on the road. Um, what wrong podcast, but keep going. The other podcast. Um, and so I'm wondering how you think about the war chest, the money printing machine and deployment of that asset.
[00:17:17] How do you decide $20 billion stock buyback versus putting 300 million into Nuro or we had Travis on the podcast and he said um he's had many opportunities to look at things like Pony which has been in the press and um it would be pretty great to have the original founder maybe I don't know you've got a couple of billion laying around and maybe help him have Pony come to the west so how do you think about deploying
[00:17:42] that capital in order to you know continue to grow from Where are we at? 1% of rides globally are ride sharing approximately a little more, but it's between 1 and 2%. It's a very low number. It's clear it's going to go to 20 with autonomy. And so if we all believe that and that's obvious, is that the best use of the capital? How do you make that decision? So I I think the good news for us is it's not either or. We can walk and chew
[00:18:07] gum at the same time. Uh in the past 12 months, we've had over 8.5 billion of cash flow. the business is growing you know top line 18% bottom line 35%. So that cash flow is going to grow by a lot over the next 3 to 5 years and we announced the 20 billion buyback because in looking forward to areas in which we could invest aggressively for example in AV because we should because it's an enormous opportunity whether it's
[00:18:37] vehicles or fleets etc. We are very comfortable that we've got enough uh capital to be super aggressive there appropriately and at the same time buy back our stock. There's a great company we know of. Uh management team can get a little better but they're okay and we think it's a great deal. So it's not it's not an either or. It's it's it's an and for us and we're lucky to be in that position at this point. You um have a very big business in Uber
[00:19:01] Eatats. Um it competes with folks like Door Dash. Mhm. When Travis was on the pod a few weeks ago, maybe a month ago, he he talked about sort of the robotization of food and all of that. Can you just talk to us about your vision of where all of that stuff goes to? And so, we're we actually work with Travis uh and his cloud kitchens business. He's also built a a restaurant tech business in in Otter as well. And I do think that
[00:19:30] you are, you know, any food business that is not deep in delivery is going to lose share period for the foreseeable future. So every single player, food player, grocery player, even now retail player has to get into delivery and has to get into on demand delivery. Otherwise, they're kind of missing the most attractive segment of of consumers out there. Uh and I think as the cost of labor is going up um all of these
[00:20:00] businesses are building are uh investing increasingly in roboticization. It's not something that we are getting into but as more food healthy food delicious food becomes more available lower prices then our delivery business kind of will benefit a lot. I'm hearing consistently from you and you can just tell me if this this is wrong that you are becoming increasingly an asset light highly liquid distribution network like you
[00:20:27] have this incredible network effect. You have these hundreds of millions maybe approaching a billion users and you can just pour them into all of these things. We we are essentially we bring demand to the assets that are driving the movement of people and things and food and grocery and these are all asset heavy businesses. So the next incremental piece of demand that comes from our network is incredibly valuable for them
[00:20:54] and we can do so staying largely capital light at the same time to the extent that I can use my capital to invest in the AV ecosystem or fleets etc. We can No text also do that. There's one company that wants to go on go on its own. A friend of ours runs it. Um I'm think that you probably have had some conversations obviously publicly you have. What's the best pitch to Elon to put a 100,000 robo taxis into the
[00:21:21] Uber fleet while still doing his own because his app is doing spectacularly well and the and the pilots are doing well so he'll obviously figure it out. But what's your best pitch to him to joining the Uber network? Uh I think listen the the pitch is simple which is if you're looking to maximize the revenue of those robo taxis today uh today we are your ticket to the maximization of that revenue to the extent that you're looking to have these
[00:21:45] fleets owned by people you know kind of the digital shepherds which is is an amazing vision that that Elon has to the extent that those uh owners are not able to monetize their assets on the Uber network they will under monetize and if there's a competitor who is offering those vehicles to be on the Uber network, the monetization of those vehicles are going to be superior and those digital shepherds are going to go
[00:22:10] elsewhere. So I think that is the pitch and again Elon is you know he kind of believes in full stack. Yes. um and he's proven it and and I think that this market is large enough for there to be multiple winners but in the end to the extent that you know we would love to partner with them uh but at this point they're looking to go it alone and I think the market is large enough to carry a number of No text winners in this
[00:22:33] I see a tough question about uh humans I was talking to Will Barnes who ran um originally in Los Angeles and then half of the country for for Travis and uh Will Barnes had a pretty amazing insight which Because in the early days, we had humans protesting humans competing for, you know, the taxi drivers versus the ride share drivers. Um, in China, in Wuhan, in fact, there's been a lot of civil unrest. And they're
[00:23:01] talking about limiting the number of licenses for self-driving cars because of the disruption that would happen if young men who have those jobs are not able to have a job. And we saw the Whimos get called to their death here in Los Angeles. And that was a pretty clear message as well. How do you think about that group of people losing their jobs? These drivers who built the Uber network, who built Lyft, who built Door
[00:23:23] Dash and China's overwhelming concern about this um because these are robots taking human jobs and there's an you know there there's a lot of discussion about this and I think maybe in the tech industry we don't talk about it headon. I think listen this is it's a big issue for AI in general and uh job displacement. You see it with younger graduates as well. I think for us at least for the next 5 years uh the number
[00:23:49] of robot cars coming onto the platform are not going to be displacing people because the platform is just growing so quickly that we can very easily take that take that demand and and there is a natural turnover of our driver base. So in a market like in Austin uh or other markets in which we're launching uh uh autonomous we will turn down the driver recruitment uh machine so the robots can come in and the drivers who are
[00:24:18] currently driving in the platform can make as much money. So Austin drivers now are making as much or more money than they were before we introduced Whimo. So I think for the next 5 to seven years we're we're going to have more human drivers and delivery people just because we're going so quickly. But I think you know 10 to 15 years from now this is going to be a real issue. And Jason I don't have a neat answer for it.
[00:24:41] Now we're finding like other kinds of work. We've got uh drivers and couriers uh you know uh labeling AI labels and looking uh you know uh we have a whole Uber AI solutions business. So we're essentially one way to look at Uber is we are a platform for work and transportation is the first kind of work and now we're expanding into other kinds of ondemand work as well to uh be able to adjust the kind of work available to
[00:25:11] people who uh want to earn our own platform. But I think longterm this is a big big societal question that we're going to have to struggle with and lots of others are going to struggle with too. Absolutely. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. really appreciate it. Great. Crushed it. Thank you, my brother.