[00:51:10] cover it up because in the book I say this is about the business of science. This isn't about science. It's about the business of science. And people have to realize there are some good people in this world. There are good scientists who want to cure cancer. But there are many people getting millions of dollars and there's nothing against money. I'm all for money and good people should be paid for important discoveries. But they
[00:51:30] shouldn't shouldn't be paid not to tell us the truth and it should be exposed. I think all the scientists should have to reveal their royalties. Not one scientist in government reveals their royalties. Some of them are now getting millions of of dollars in this stuff. Fizer paid 800 million and Madna paid 400 million and they've taken that money and now they put it in a foundation that I have no oversight in government over. Government has no oversight of there's an NIH foundation that has $1.2 trillion in it
[00:51:56] given from big pharma for their share of the COVID vaccine. So no, it's an extraordinary thing where in private they were very open to the fact leaning towards and in favor of the fact that the virus came from a lab. In public they were disdainful. They got Facebook to take all our crap down. They got Facebook to take down the discussion of it as a conspiracy. That's an evil thing to do. And it's it's dishonest. It's not
[00:52:21] just you're a bad person. If you were in the government and you were leading people astray as to the cause of something because you find it you deserve to be punished really in a criminal way. I saw your heated exchange with Fouchy. There was a a video. It's about nine minutes long. It went viral. you and uh questioning uh Fouchy um about gain of function research and I just want to talk about the origin of
[00:52:43] gain of function research because it's a term of art that's got different definitions right depending on who you ask Fouchy obviously disagreed with the definition what's your view as a doctor as someone who's worked in science and as a political leader about the role that government should play in researching ahead of the curve so that understanding what may come next which I think is part of the argument for some of this research that we need to understand how viruses can evolve so
[00:53:12] that we can prepare for the next pandemic because if we don't there will be a congressional hearing saying why didn't you prepare enough so there's different aspects to this should we know how viruses evolve absolutely should we test viruses and infections from different natural sources yes gain of function is different than that gain of function is forcing evolution in a direction so gain of function is I take a rat and I put
[00:53:37] human lungs in it. Not literally human lungs, but I have a they will express receptors that make cells think that they're invading a human. So, I give it a virus and I run it through and nine nine rats survive and one's sick as What I do is I take the really sick one, I culture the virus out and I do it again. And every time I just keep culturing it till I get a virus that really attaches to human cells. We
[00:53:59] believe COVID is that because most animal viruses, the aven flu right now, if the aven flu is not manipulated in a lab, it can infect a human but doesn't go human to human. It has trouble. That's the way animal viruses are. When CO started, it hit humans and went everywhere. It just there was nothing stopping it, which made us think it was pre-addapted. There are many other reasons why we think this happens. But as far as gain of function, what should be regulated and what shouldn't? One,
[00:54:23] it's very dangerous. Viruses are more dangerous than bacteria if they're aerosolized. something that can spread through the air can be incredibly dangerous. Um, lethality. Should you increase the lethality of it? Um, some of these viruses start with 50% lethality. And if you want to know what that's like, read Barbara Tukman's about the 14th century calamity and the black plague. When a third of Europe died, I mean, we're talking about setting back
[00:54:46] civilization hundreds of year. We're talking about entering the stone age. We we some people think we could lose 10% of our population and we wouldn't get chlorine in the water. we'd no longer have portable water and we would have riots like you've never seen in just a disaster. So aerosolization, increasing the lethality, increasing the transmissibility are all dangerous things. They did all of that and yet he argued, oh well, you can't have gain of
[00:55:09] function unless it was intentional. And it's like, well, if you're running it through human humanized mice or rats, you're pushing it you're pushing its evolution to be infectious in humans. And uh you know he he basically lied. One day he came and they had actually changed the the definition on his website the day before. So they knew I'd been arguing that it was gain of function. They actually literally changed the definition on the website to say it doesn't match the definition.
[00:55:35] You would still support research into where viruses are headed and protecting the population and doing this this research but not in this directed engineered way. Right. So there's a there's a big difference and even many some of the people support Fouchy actually support me on this. Identifying viruses mostly a good idea but still you have to think about it. A lot of these viruses are 300 feet underground in these enormous bat caves in South China. So
[00:56:00] should you go down 300 feet underground and just randomly get as many as you can and take them back to a lab in Wuhan. Well, there's the danger that one you got is the one that's going to kill all of mankind. Maybe it was never getting up and other viruses would dominate it and never was getting up to service. You should check the humans who live around the cave. You should check viruses that get up into our world. I'm not sure you should bring viruses from very remote areas to big cities. But then it's worse
[00:56:24] than that. The big virus identification, which sounds benign. They were taking the corona viruses. They were taking a backbone of it and they have a new one they found in a cave. They were taking the S- protein off a new one and sticking it on a backbone. the backbone is infectious and they're wanting to know does it make it more or less infectious. Well, that's really a recipe for discovering something that maybe is a disaster. It isn't helping and and most most of the people who follow this
[00:56:49] that oppose gain of function say no gain of function research has developed any vaccines. But here's further I think a compromise and a moderation of this. I don't want to ban it. I want to set up a presidential commission of scientists who are not currently employed by NIH, don't have grants that I can give them bigger grants if they agree with me. And I want them to evaluate this. But not only do they need to evaluate the civilian side of this, they need to
[00:57:15] evaluate the classified side because here's what happens in our government. And I only know this much because they won't tell me either. They say, "Well, the Chinese are doing this." Well, then we need to do it. You have to, oh, the Chinese are doing this. They're working with Norberg virus. I'm just making this part up of which virus they're dealing with this very dangerous virus. Well, we should too. That is the basically the logic and what it takes to get a research grant in the classified area
[00:57:38] that the Chinese are doing it. Well, you know, we might have an accident doing something the Chinese are doing that the Chinese shouldn't be doing and we should be trying to stop them from doing, but we could kill the world also through an accident. Uh even the safest labs in our country have dozens of accidents every year. Fair enough. Do you feel like there's been an erosion of public trust in science and scientific institutions in
[00:58:01] this country? And importantly, when people lose faith in science, which is meant to be the source for objective truth, a process by which we discover the truth through testing and experimentation, hypothesizing, testing and experimentation, and looking at the results objectively, does it not create space for people to come in with untruths and convince the public of untruths being true? Right. Absolutely. And so, the biggest
[00:58:26] one they're talking about now is vaccine hesitancy. So, and people say, "Oh, it's all the right wing. It's people crazy on the right wing that are creating this vaccine hesitency." And I say, "Well, if you tell people things that aren't true, they become distrustful of all science." So, I'll I'll tell you one right now. I've had this back and forth with C Bill Cassidy, the senator from Louisiana, and with other members of the establishment medical community. Does your two-day old
[00:58:51] need a hepatitis B vaccine? I just went through this personally. Yeah. And we we opted not to and we have to deal with it in the schools and we've been having this debate about how we did the same thing. We did it later on in school. But here's the thing. Does your two-day old need There's one indication for your two-day old get it. Mom has hepatitis B and you have to within 12 hours give them the vaccine and you have to give them imunoglobulin which is like a a monoconal antibbody
[00:59:15] against hepatitis. But they test it already. So if the mom does not have hepatitis B, is there any indication with hepatitis B? No. In fact, you know what the honest people will tell you? They'll say, "Oh, no, but we have you there and we can get much better compliance by forcing it and pushing it in the hospital." The other problem is this. There's so many problems on so many levels. The hepatitis B vaccine wears off. When does it wear off? About
[00:59:36] 10 to 12 years. When might you want to inoculate your kid for hepatitis B? If you are worried about your teenager getting involved in sex, drugs, and rock and roll, and IV drugs. That's when it's going to happen. You might consider the hepatitis B vaccine. Plus, he's 12 years old at that point and much bigger, stronger, and able to take whatever you give them. But they are creating vaccine hesitancy on this because they're lying to us. They're absolutely lying to us.
[01:00:00] COVID vaccine the same. People think I'm antivaccine. Uh my age, I'm 62. I probably would have taken it. I'm still a little iffy on some of the details, but I the reason I didn't take it is I got infected in March of 2020. I had it and I didn't take the vaccine. But would I give it to my 5-year-old right now? Hell no, I wouldn't have. Would I have given it to him in March of 2020? No, because all of the initial evidence out of uh China was children. They weren't
[01:00:23] even sure if they were getting sick. But when they started doing the testing, they found out they were all getting it and they weren't getting sick. It's like a lot of social discourse and politics. It's become so binary. There's no nuance and there's no gray area for conversation about some of these make sense, some of them do not. Why can't we agree that we can each have a different point of view on that? And most of Europe doesn't do the COVID vaccine or push it on goods. So, I think
[01:00:42] I blame them and actually do want people to believe in science. I come from a scientific background. And I've had uh papers published in scientific journals. You know, I come from that background. But uh you have to be honest with people. And I also believe people are smarter. You don't have to have a PhD to know people are lying to you about the FB vaccine. Just today, Putin Xi and Kim Jong-un stood together in Beijing. Very dramatic
[01:01:00] No text show of strength and unity as a group. What does it mean for America to be in competition with China? Is this going to evolve into a conflict from your point of view? Or is there a way to carry the world forward where we all have prosperity where we all progress, where all societies succeed, where they cooperate, and we have a multipolar world that doesn't dictate a winner and a loser. Do we really need American primacy? The shorter answer is yes. The longer answer is more complicated. Um Graham
[01:01:34] Allison wrote a book, The Thusidities Trap, and we interviewed him at our show last night. He's amazing guy. Really, really bright guy and a guy I'm fond of. He you know talks about up and cominging powers and is is war inevitable and interesting and I don't know if this commander but I met with one of the Pacific fleet managers I don't want to name him because I don't want him conversation but he said when
[01:01:53] you go back to Washington make sure they know that war with China is not inevitable and I thought it's a profound statement from a guy who's going to be in charge of the war and out there fighting on the front lines and uh I think it is very possible and I think it but it gets back to fallacies um can you trade with China where you both get rich and it's not they're ripping us off. Uh I think yes and I think that is the truth of the matter. Since 1975 on, we've had a trade deficit every year and we got richer and so do they are there
[01:02:19] problems and dislocations in industry? Yeah. But I would actually argue what killed the steel industry or hurt the steel industry the most in this in this country was actually protectionism. Um they've been protected for long one antitrust killed them first when they broke up US steel and that became them less competitive with foreigners because they were smaller. But then the second thing that went after them is we did try
[01:02:38] to protect them. This isn't the first time we tried to protect steel. We've been trying to protect steel. As we protected steel, what did it do? Did it breed uh better and more uh profound market decisions or worse decisions? So, if you're selling me chairs and I tell you, you sell them for $50, I can say, well, we'll put a tariff on you, sell them for $100. Are you going to be more efficient or less? You know, you won't make as wise a decision because you're being protected from the competition.
[01:03:03] And so, all of that happened with with steel industry. But I think we can we have to get through the fallacy part, but we also have have to understand that I think we're pushing in the wrong direction. There's a possibility. People think we're going to defeat them and we're going to come out on top because we're so, you know, great and protectionism is going to show how great we are. But them all meeting together to
[01:03:21] me shows one other possibility. And I don't know what will happen. Nobody does. But there's one possibility that finally unites them enough that they do everything in their power not to use the dollar and maybe they can displace the dollar. They already try in their transactions. And so I think we we we use the the stick in foreign policy and you have to have it, but we should have a carrot offered as well. Um I just met with some Syrian Americans today,
[01:03:46] physicians mostly and uh uh intellectuals and u engineers and things and they want to get rid of the sanctions on Syria. And I say finally, now they did like that. I think this group liked the sanctions before, but they want to get rid of them. Finally, somebody wants to get rid of sanctions because there has to be a reward. And so even with countries we find distasteful and often are distasteful. Iran, there has to be an offer somehow to get rid of the sanctions. I would send my diplomats
[01:04:11] to China. I'll give you a great example. Blinken and Yellen went to China and they were screaming, pitching a fit and and telling the Chinese how bad they were. One that's not very good diplomacy, but they wanted them to stop selling dual use parts to Ukraine. I mean to Russia in the Ukraine war. And so I said, "Well, it's a reasonable goal." But had I been in charge, I would send my diplomats to China and I would say, "Look, the Chinese don't like to
[01:04:36] lose face. They don't like you insulting them in their own country. Quietly say, you know, this sanction I think is costing you about $50 billion worth of of wealth. We'll remove it, but you got to quit selling them the dual use." They would never admit that we pushed them into doing it. It's a trade and it's transactional and diplomacy sometimes needs to be that. We have a lot of people both in Congress and and involved
[01:04:59] administrations who are much more black and white that there are good and bad people in the world and the bad people need to die and we need to defeat them utterly. And I wish they would die and go away, but you know, I can't that kind of attitude. We're going to be waiting a long time if we think sanctions is going to get rid of the Communist Party in China. Capitalism might someday. And everybody complained, well, Deng Xiaoping opened it up and it they still have repression and capitalism. It's
[01:05:22] true. But I think you might argue and this isn't a great argument for current China, but that China may be a better place than it was under Mao. I mean, people who've been there tell me that it definitely is 10x improvement in GDP per capita. You visit a modern Chinese city, it's like living in the future, right? People are very happy, it seems, despite the but not an argument for socialism, but an argument that most of that's actually due to the amount of capitalism they've