[00:38:13] employed directly or indirectly by a federal, state or local government or government contractor or earn their income from a government check, can we actually reduce spending? And this is a real problem when you look at our spending as a percentage of GDP, the spending part, the 7 trillion, the average over the last 5 years is about 26%. Right now we're at 23 or 24% of GDP. And I love it because the people
[00:38:39] say, "Well, we'll just have tariffs and we'll run the government off tariffs." And I said, "Well, when they did that in the 19th century, government was 3% of GDP." I'm for that. You bring me spending bills and I'll vote for all of them to make us a 19th century government of 3% of GDP and I'll vote for all your tariffs. But that's a that's a big change and it is a problem and it's sort of a two-fold problem. The people actually working for government. You got to make government smaller so we don't have as many government jobs. But
[00:39:03] the other segment is is worrisome if not more and that is the people not participating in the workforce. They're getting money but they're not participating and it's like 38 40% 42% depending on the state. So 40% of the people eligible to work able to work and not working. And this is um you know libertarians had this debate like what do you do? They don't some of them don't want any border controls. And they say
[00:39:28] and my dad used to say this and I kind of agree with this part. You need to build a wall around the welfare state and don't give any people coming into the country illegal any access to your welfare state. And I still agree with that part. I think you still have to have border security too and you have to push back on millions of people coming all at once. But there is a problem if you had like for example and people will tell you this in that have tomatoes or
[00:39:52] anything else the things that uh require handpicking you won't have enough people. But you would have enough people if Americans work. But a whole chunk 40% of them aren't working who should. But if you want to if you if you want to expel 20 million people from the country and do that, you have to simultaneously quit paying the people not to work or you won't have enough workers. There is also this argument. There was an
[00:40:16] economist by the name of Julian Simon who was a big promoter of this. Population is actually proportional to wealth. So is trade. You look at big large charts over decades and decades. The more trade you have, the wealthier you have. The more people you have, the wealthier you have. And um there was a famous bet between Paul Erlick and Julian Simon about five different commodities and whether they'd be uh more more rare after like a 10-year
[00:40:40] period. Julian Simon, the libertarian economist, uh wins his bet because basically the real he said the real resource, the real ultimate resource is the mind. It's ingenuity. Nobody would have imagined even in my lifetime the whole concept of AI. We didn't imagine smartphones or cell phones. We didn't imagine all of these things. Um and we're going to have these big debates maybe bigger than everything we've discussed is whether or not we're going to succumb to the lite philosophy or whether we're going to believe that we
[00:41:10] will over not only overcome but technology we will succeed in technology. It doesn't mean you can just sit there and do nothing. You have to adapt with the times and move forward. But we've, you know, the people breaking the looms were wrong. Do you think this transition with AI in our economy and our society will actually No text create such significant productivity gains that jobs will proliferate that we can get people off of the welfare, off
[00:41:35] of government jobs and into the private workforce because they're I don't know if it fixes that problem, but I am of the opinion that I don't fear technology in general. And I was having this conversation really with one of the world's richest men and he told me, "Yeah, that's fine." and I' I've been with you and I'm not for the lites except for and I said well humans you got to have humans to make the robots he says the first generation the second generation of robots will be made by the
[00:41:59] robots and I guess it doesn't it doesn't resonate with me because I have such a profound uh belief in in the ingenuity of of mankind that I think it is limitless and um I don't think that we need to uh smash the computers I don't think we have to break you know somehow shut down the chip companies and say we're all going to be out of work. I do think though there'll be a time that we will have such great leisure that we
[00:42:25] will we will actually choose to work. And I always tell people this anyway. I want everybody in America to work not as punishment but as reward. There is a reward to working. And I think even if all jobs were eliminated, you'd have sort of like secret societies where you can go someplace and it'll be underground and you have to do it under threat of death, but you can go and work. Yeah. You know, even if we have no work, there will be want people have
[00:42:48] used to have yoga classes and Pilates classes and massage therapists and many of the luxuries that we take for granted today that simply didn't exist a 100 years ago when the industrial revolution, the second industrial revolution was underway. And as we fast forward the next few decades, I think our life, and this is one of Pinker's points, is just labor per capita, like labor hours has gone down steadily. We've given ourselves more free time with the leverage we've
[00:43:13] created on on human time. He he does this and so does uh Marian Tupi at uh human progress. They talk about time hours and so did William Nordhouse the was the famous example maybe one of the first from Yale. He was the economist who wrote about how many hours of work it takes to get light for a year to read by. And it was like in the 19th century because you had to have candles. It was like 10,000 hours of work or no maybe it's a thousand hours
[00:43:40] of work to have nighttime light to read by. It's 10 seconds of work gives you an entire year's worth of light. That productivity increase nobody could fathom and all the loites, you know, hate that kind of stuff and it's like it's not going to happen and we need to take the pitchfork and the axe to the computers. Uh, no, we'll we'll figure it out. Um, I do think though that the the the AI people and once again I'm not a genius on AI. I don't write code. I
[00:44:06] don't know any of that. But I think it's overstated that uh how great AI is going to be. I think it's going to be a lot of cool things. And I think some people are going to get caught. We're going to have too many data centers at one point. And I don't care how much electricity they're sucking. But at the same time, I think we're going to have too many of them because people will say what the one thing I see they do really well now
[00:44:24] is they they uh are great adjacent to things. uh you know I've looked up political questions even today on what happens if we hand the reverse repos you know at the Federal Reserve and it gives a a pretty good explanation it's a faster it isn't smarter than humans it's much faster at doing the search that I could have done manually by using the Google search engine but these things just kill and I wonder whether that's you know everybody oh we got to break up Google because they have a monopoly on
[00:44:52] search engines I wonder how long it will take until maybe it's already happening that AI I will make Google less of a dominant search engine. This was actually in the court ruling yesterday, the judge that decided to not break up Google. There was a write up on the rise of AI showing a a point and that I'm in favor of on multiple levels, but I think it's also cool. Nobody would have predicted, oh, oh, Google's going to have everything and
[00:45:16] they'll the whole world market all of a sudden something comes in new, you know, right? AI, like any other technology prior, provides leverage on human time and therefore leverage on human capital. And when you get a higher ROI on capital, you generally have more capital flow in, not less. So people will invest more in people. They will pay more to people. They will hire more people as AI tools are utilized. They're just going to increase productivity for every person.
[00:45:40] That's a great way of putting it. And I hadn't thought of that because that fits with my sort of Adam Smith model that the extent of our prosperity is the extent of the division of labor. And so if AI gives me four more free time, you know, then I'm I'm going to be smarter and I'm going to think of other ideas and maybe we will get to Mars. You know, I just want to ask your point on Doge. There was a lot of proclamations at the start of this administration about the
[00:46:03] importance of Doge, Elon Musk's role in the administration. The president and others in the administration declared Doge such an important part of the efforts and all the cabinet members were incorporating Doge team members into their work. Today, is Doge dead? No, I still met meet with people in government who I think are part of Doge were uh probably colleagues and friends of Elon Musk and brought into the situation. I
[00:46:26] think they've been a great addition because one, they're people who know about profit and loss and they're people who have been successful in business and the fact that they've been selected by the marketplace as being successful people means they're good people to have in government. Is it everything I'd wished? No. But that's not the Doge people's fault. That's people resisting Doge and resisting the cuts. I like the fact that the president pushed on with
[00:46:49] another round of the foreign aid cuts and he's doing this pocket resision and you know I am a stickler for the rules and for the constitution. The constitution is very explicit on how you spend it but it's pretty silent on not spending it. And I think the best way for people have their doubts about whether they should do it is imagine we need an aircraft carrier and we hire somebody who looks at every nut and bolt like Elon Musk and his rockets. All right, we hire Elon Musk and we give him
[00:47:11] a billion dollars and he says, "This is crazy. I can do this for $800 million like this." And he probably can. And that's probably true of every aircraft carrier we have. So he does it for 800 million. Should we be forced to spend the 200 million that this this person found in savings? Should we go to Las Vegas and have a big convention for all the GSA people with champagne and everything? No. It's ridiculous. The money should go back to the Treasury. Now, the appropriators on both sides of the aisle
[00:47:35] say, "No, it's been appropriate. It should be spent." but sort of ignores the fact that we're $2 trillion over budget. If you had a balanced budget, you could argue, well, we want it to be spent. If you have $2 trillion in the hole, if you don't spend it, we should be applauding the savings and the money should go back to the Treasury. So, I'm with them on the recision stuff. I want more of the Doge cuts. I'm all for it, but the push back, and it's bipartisan,
[00:47:58] the push back, it's the spenders, it's the big spenders in both parties that have pushed back on Doge, but I still wish them success and still am for them. I was struck by how many Senate confirmation hearings I watched where senators blatantly spoke on camera about the need to keep dollars flowing to their state and that was the motivation. It just drove me nuts. Anyway, we'll move on. I want to talk about your new
[00:48:18] No text book, Deception, The Great COVID Coverup. What was at the heart of the coverup from your point of view? Some people get nervous when you talk about cover up or conspiracy. They're like, "Oh, you're one of those crazy people." And I think the best way to think of a conspiracy is the way George Carlin put it. George Carlin said that it's not necessary to have a cabal of people, you know, that are all evil that
[00:48:44] get together in a room to have a conspiracy. All that's necessary is to have a convergence of interest. The convergence of interest in COVID was holy crap, we funded this. And so if you are Anthony Fouchy and you know that you've made a deal to do very dangerous research in China, one because there's less oversight in China and there's complaints beginning to circulate in America. Let's outsource this to China.
[00:49:08] What's your first thought? We got to cover this up. And that's exactly what he was doing. The phone calls went on in our in my book. My wife helped me write it. We go on in vivid detail of the minuteby minute of him going till 3 in the morning that first night. Emails going back and forth and back and forth. Jeremy Ferrar is his counterpart at Welcome Trust in England. He is saying, "I didn't know what a
[00:49:33] burner phone was. I had to buy a burner phone. My wife said I should talk to my uh brother, bring him in in case something happens to me." And then he goes on to say, "It was no big deal. It turns out it just came from animals." It's like, well, you think the animals are going to kill you? Why are you getting a burner phone? Why are you giving your last rights to your brother? These people were very concerned.
[00:49:55] Maybe not that they were going to be killed by foreign agents, but that the public was going to find out that they had been funding this very dangerous research and that millions of people die because of lack of oversight. But I go through the emails. There's never been a more extraordinary cover up in the sense that these people were saying in public the opposite of what they were saying in private. So freedom of information became the the the tool that uncovered a
[00:50:21] lot of this and thousands of people, you know, helped to get this done. But in private, Anthony Fouchi is saying I'm 50/50 whether this came from the lab or animals. in publicly saying you're a conspiracy theorist and should be treated as crazy and that we should uh expune you or we should expose you. We should bring you down. Him and Francis Collins are talking back and forth about bringing down Jay Badacharia and uh all
[00:50:47] of the others that were exposing this stuff. This is just extraordinary. We have the we have the proof. You're saying they knew that their funded research which was done in China because there was less oversight is what ultimately led to the development of SARS KV2 and it escaped from the lab. They knew there was a high everything's a a proportion. Everything is a percentage. They knew there was a high chance it was and they they chose to
[00:51:10] cover it up because in the book I say this is about the business of science. This isn't about science. It's about the business of science. And people have to realize there are some good people in this world. There are good scientists who want to cure cancer. But there are many people getting millions of dollars and there's nothing against money. I'm all for money and good people should be paid for important discoveries. But they
[00:51:30] shouldn't shouldn't be paid not to tell us the truth and it should be exposed. I think all the scientists should have to reveal their royalties. Not one scientist in government reveals their royalties. Some of them are now getting millions of of dollars in this stuff. Fizer paid 800 million and Madna paid 400 million and they've taken that money and now they put it in a foundation that I have no oversight in government over. Government has no oversight of there's an NIH foundation that has $1.2 trillion in it
[00:51:56] given from big pharma for their share of the COVID vaccine. So no, it's an extraordinary thing where in private they were very open to the fact leaning towards and in favor of the fact that the virus came from a lab. In public they were disdainful. They got Facebook to take all our crap down. They got Facebook to take down the discussion of it as a conspiracy. That's an evil thing to do. And it's it's dishonest. It's not
[00:52:21] just you're a bad person. If you were in the government and you were leading people astray as to the cause of something because you find it you deserve to be punished really in a criminal way. I saw your heated exchange with Fouchy. There was a a video. It's about nine minutes long. It went viral. you and uh questioning uh Fouchy um about gain of function research and I just want to talk about the origin of
[00:52:43] gain of function research because it's a term of art that's got different definitions right depending on who you ask Fouchy obviously disagreed with the definition what's your view as a doctor as someone who's worked in science and as a political leader about the role that government should play in researching ahead of the curve so that understanding what may come next which I think is part of the argument for some of this research that we need to understand how viruses can evolve so
[00:53:12] that we can prepare for the next pandemic because if we don't there will be a congressional hearing saying why didn't you prepare enough so there's different aspects to this should we know how viruses evolve absolutely should we test viruses and infections from different natural sources yes gain of function is different than that gain of function is forcing evolution in a direction so gain of function is I take a rat and I put