[01:03:21] me shows one other possibility. And I don't know what will happen. Nobody does. But there's one possibility that finally unites them enough that they do everything in their power not to use the dollar and maybe they can displace the dollar. They already try in their transactions. And so I think we we we use the the stick in foreign policy and you have to have it, but we should have a carrot offered as well. Um I just met with some Syrian Americans today,
[01:03:46] physicians mostly and uh uh intellectuals and u engineers and things and they want to get rid of the sanctions on Syria. And I say finally, now they did like that. I think this group liked the sanctions before, but they want to get rid of them. Finally, somebody wants to get rid of sanctions because there has to be a reward. And so even with countries we find distasteful and often are distasteful. Iran, there has to be an offer somehow to get rid of the sanctions. I would send my diplomats
[01:04:11] to China. I'll give you a great example. Blinken and Yellen went to China and they were screaming, pitching a fit and and telling the Chinese how bad they were. One that's not very good diplomacy, but they wanted them to stop selling dual use parts to Ukraine. I mean to Russia in the Ukraine war. And so I said, "Well, it's a reasonable goal." But had I been in charge, I would send my diplomats to China and I would say, "Look, the Chinese don't like to
[01:04:36] lose face. They don't like you insulting them in their own country. Quietly say, you know, this sanction I think is costing you about $50 billion worth of of wealth. We'll remove it, but you got to quit selling them the dual use." They would never admit that we pushed them into doing it. It's a trade and it's transactional and diplomacy sometimes needs to be that. We have a lot of people both in Congress and and involved
[01:04:59] administrations who are much more black and white that there are good and bad people in the world and the bad people need to die and we need to defeat them utterly. And I wish they would die and go away, but you know, I can't that kind of attitude. We're going to be waiting a long time if we think sanctions is going to get rid of the Communist Party in China. Capitalism might someday. And everybody complained, well, Deng Xiaoping opened it up and it they still have repression and capitalism. It's
[01:05:22] true. But I think you might argue and this isn't a great argument for current China, but that China may be a better place than it was under Mao. I mean, people who've been there tell me that it definitely is 10x improvement in GDP per capita. You visit a modern Chinese city, it's like living in the future, right? People are very happy, it seems, despite the but not an argument for socialism, but an argument that most of that's actually due to the amount of capitalism they've
[01:05:46] allowed to come in. There was a interview with the guys from the I think it was the Hoover Institution that it was actually the entrepreneurism in the No text country. Political future for you, Senator, or are you thinking maybe you could run for president again in the future? You know, I think um it depends on what happens in the next year or two. I think there needs to be a voice within our party that is more libertarian free market. I think we have populism and
[01:06:09] protectionism covered and I think there will be many errors and many people competing to be heirs of Donald Trump in the protectionist front. I don't think it's good for our country and I think it will make us less wealthy and ultimately could really lead to a calamity. um if things are rosy in three or four years and the economyy's percolating along and it is a possibility. It is a possibility that the tariffs as as bad as I think they are are not a big enough percentage of the overall GDP to slow things down
[01:06:35] and that capitalism is still vibrant enough to overcome the tariffs. There's a distinct possibility if that's true we'll get more tariffs and we'll get another protectionist populist president. Um I want to be that voice whether it's in the Senate or running for the presidency. I don't know. I think right now, all things given, uh, free markets and free trade isn't isn't very popular right now. People are all making excuses for why we should own
[01:06:57] Intel. Howard Lutnik thinks that's part of that's capitalism and, you know, that tariffs are lowering taxes and all gobbledegook that makes no sense. If that if the economy still percolated on, people may still accept that uh nonsense as truth. I've been to DC a number of times in the last year or two. I always tell people I'm disappointed when I meet with members of Congress when I come back from DC because I hear the same thing over and over and I don't see a progressive voice that actually speaks
[01:07:24] to where this nation needs to go. I often consider myself a libertarian. So I want to thank you for your service, for your leadership, for your voice. Thank you for being here today. Thank you. I'm going all in.