[00:00:00] No text We live on a house of cards because, and most people don't know this, and I don't want to scare your audience, the scare your audience if I tell too much. Go ahead. I voted to raise the age of social security, but it's not going to be around unless you raise the age to 70. That's the only way that sticks around. Do we really need American primacy? He said, when you go back to Washington, make sure they know that wars with China
[00:00:19] is not inevitable. But I think it's overstated how great AI is going to be. the left, you know, has this uh modern monetary theory and it and it sounds ridiculous and it is except that it kind of worked for 10 or 15 years. If 40 to 50% of Americans are employed directly or indirectly by a federal, state, or local government or government contractor or earn their income from a government check, can we actually reduce spending? Here's the bottom line. I I voted against the big beautiful bill because
[00:00:50] of the debt ceiling, but also here's the projections. What was at the heart of the cover up? There's never been a more extraordinary cover up in the sense that these people were saying in public the opposite of what they were saying in private. All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite
[00:01:17] your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. going. Senator, thanks for being here. Thanks for having me in your office for the conversation today. I'm I'm really excited for this. You grew up in Texas with a well-known father, 12-term congressman, three-time presidential candidate Ron Paul. However, you became a doctor after residency at Duke Medical. And I'd love to hear a little bit about how you chose that path instead of politics at the beginning of your career. Well, that was sort of following father
[00:01:46] also. You know, my dad's a physician, too. So, I went to medical school. in fact went to the same medical school as my dad. Um my dad is an OBGYn. He's retired now. Uh we have a family of several doctors. My little sister's an OBGYn. My brother's a family doctor. I got two nieces, three nieces that are doctors. So, a lot of doctors. But as a kid, uh you know, I have distinct memories of laying on the shag carpet because we have had shag carpet in the 70s and listening to him in uh I don't
[00:02:16] know, Missoula, Montana on the radio. I'd hear the one end of him answering questions. Uh I went to lots and lots of his speeches. I was interested in the books he recommended other people to read and I read many of those. Uh he gave me a full set of Einran's novels when I was 15 and said there's a lot of good stuff in here but you know there's some of the stuff we don't agree with either. So, and uh but to be
[00:02:42] open-minded, to take the good, the good with the bad and uh to be able to filter through, but that there was something there about individualism and I still believe that to this day, that there is something uh you know, all the critics hate Iron Rand. It's oh, she's, you know, she's so simplistic, this and that, but there is something that connected with the American spirit, the spirit of ingenuity, the spirit of uh being heroes. You know, it's the idea that, you know, uh, you know, it's I
[00:03:07] think why people were fascinated with Elon Musk and capturing those rockets from space that it's like, wow, we can have somebody who really does cool things once again in our country. Yeah. Einran's writing seemed to be coming more preient than I think we realized early on. I think that's why the people thought it was simplistic because the characters were character types. Nobody believed they could ever exist that there'd be be there would be middle management. There
[00:03:31] would be the Ellsworth Tui or the Peter Keading in the middle of these corporations and nobody believed that their whole purpose would be mediocrity, right? And they purposely would try to choose people based on the color of their skin or their ethnicity over their merit. Nobody believed that could ever happen. That was such a a dystopian sort of Harrison Burggeron. That was all farce. That was dystopian farce until now. You're right. It looks a lot like
[00:03:55] reality. Here we are. Why did you make the career shift into politics after being a doctor No text for some time? I practiced private practice for about 20 years. Was a physician for 20 25 years. In your life, it's a lot of work. You go through an internship, medical school, residency. I was about 30 when I finished. And so when my dad ran in 2008, really the campaigns are a year in advance. So when he ran in 2007 into 2008 for the Republican nomination, I thought I'd go
[00:04:24] and help. I sort of volunteered and said, "Dad, I'll give some speeches." And went out and gave a lot of speeches on my own. Not really introductory speeches, but actually my own thing and kind of felt, wow, this is great to be able to sort of express yourself and have an opinion. I always had an opinion, but now I could find somebody to listen. And so I did that in 2008, got the bug, and then some of being in the right place at the right time. Jim Bunning had been in the Senate two
[00:04:48] terms. Uh he was a Hall of Fame pitcher, but he wasn't raising any money. it looked like he might not run. And so one day I'm at the office and this guy I knew from a property rights group, you know, too many, you know, lower property taxes kind of stuff, keep the government off our land kind of stuff. He called me up and he says, "Hey, I know this reporter, this AP reporter, and we think he leans kind of conservative and he's from the Republican area of the state.
[00:05:13] Why don't you just call him up and tell him you're interested?" So I hadn't even talked to my wife about it or anything. I said, "What the hell?" So I called him up and said, "Yeah, I'm thinking about running." And uh I got a statewide story. Then I got a national story. I was like, "Wow, this is not that hard." And so then I had a sort of a come to Jesus moment. I had to talk to my wife about this. And uh she wasn't very happy that, you know, we'd been married 20some
[00:05:38] years that I hadn't bothered to mention it to her. I said, "Look, there's no way I can get elected. I'm just going to be honest. I'm going to tell them we're out of money. I'm not going to offer him something for nothing." I said, "I'm never bringing home any bacon. We don't have any bacon. nobody will ever vote for that and uh she gradually got over it. Now she's my biggest champion. We've written a couple books together and we you know we work together well but um someone was being the right place at the
[00:06:01] right time maybe having something to say. The Tea Party movement which I think my dad is responsible at least partly for getting started that mo movement was burgeoning in 2010. The big radio talk hosts were Limbbo and Hannity and Hannity still big on the radio. These hosts were out there hosting rallies. They were talking about the Constitution and the debt and it was an exciting time. I uh uh I don't know if I
[00:06:25] had announced yet. I was thinking about it. My town's fairly small, 50,000 at the time and we have an old square built in the 19th century. I went down to the square. Somebody was having a tea party rally. I didn't know what it was. And it was open mic. I wasn't even invited to speak really. And I spoke and there were 800 people there. I'd never been to a political rally in my town, Republican or otherwise, with 800 people. There was a real movement. That's why it kind of makes me sad now that it's a it's a
[00:06:50] movement that came and you know did it go came conquered and nothing happened because uh some of the people left and some of the people decided that debts were okay if you had a Republican in charge and were bad if a Democrat was. That's really interesting because I wanted to get to your core philosophy and identity. On Wikipedia it says No text libertarian constitutional conservative tea party movement Republican. How do
[00:07:14] you describe yourself, your identity? Senator, all of those things are are true to a certain extent. Um, I like to say that I'm I'm part of the Leave Me Alone coalition. And then sometimes I'll say, you know, really I'm part of the Leave Me the Hell alone coalition. And that means in all sort of aspects, personal, private, my contracts, my business, what I do, my family, just leave just leave me alone. And that encompasses a bigger group than just conservatives, a bigger group than just libertarians. Um, and I
[00:07:44] would say there there was a long time ago there was a guy named uh Frank Meyers. And Frank Myers they called a fusionist. He was a guy who was going to be somewhere in between uh Buckley and um Murray Rothmar. Murray Rothbart is not as well known but he was a student of Von Mises and he was a libertarian writer and Buckley everybody knows who Buckley is. And that became the more traditional conservative movement. And the libertarians sort of said, "Well, we
[00:08:10] like all that capitalism, everything, but we're worried if so much money goes into the military that maybe the military will become the state also." And they were really against the state in all facets. We want a small state. We're for defending the country, don't get us wrong, but and so, but somewhere in between those two, some of the libertarians would have no military, some of them would have open borders, and then there was the conservatives that somewhere in the middle was a
[00:08:32] fusion. and Frank Meyers uh was a part of that. Was one of the cool things when I first come up here, they invited me to the Frank Meyers Society, like eight guys that were like 80 and 90 years old. It was such a great dinner club. Uh but anyway, does that make it hard to operate in DC to to be fusion? Because the the the the kind of mechanism the operating model in DC seems to be policy by party. Uh you have to be a member of a party and then leadership sets the agenda and everyone falls in line.
[00:09:02] Yeah. And I think that's really disappointing about it. And I think a lot of the public doesn't necessarily like that and that's why a lot of the public says they don't like either party. Um I'm of the the belief that like right now there's a great danger in our country to losing a movement that represents the free market, trade and capitalism and all of those things because I think we're moving towards a movement that backs a person. And I I
[00:09:26] feel the wrath all the time. I don't back Donald Trump enough and so I'm to be, you know, uh, I get along with Donald Trump actually on a personal level better than some of his supporters who've gone crazy and they don't seem to remember. I've supported a lot of supported his nominees. I voted against his impeachments. I was one of the loudest voices against them and yet they can't stand if I oppose him on one thing. That's not good. And also there is something trade is not an incidental
[00:09:52] issue. The trade is sort of a fundamental aspect of capitalism and Adam Smith wrote about it. In fact, one of Adam Smith's u sort of great nuggets that he gave to the world was the idea that the division of labor makes us richer. So if you don't have to sit around making your shoes, your clothes or your tie, you can do something out, you have time to think and your innovation is going to create more more great things. But he also said that the division of labor and the prosperity
[00:10:16] that it creates is only limited by its ex how far it extends. And I think what he meant by that is by trade. So we, you know, I I'm richer in my town because I don't make my shoes. Maybe somebody else in the town makes them. Then I'm even richer when somebody in another state makes them. But guess what? I got even richer when they were made in Vietnam. We all did. And that is being now uh the fallacy is being promoted that trade is bad, which really essentially means capitalism is bad. Then we got people
[00:10:43] promoting that we should own the companies and the government should be involved with ownership of the companies. All that stuff. It worries me that people are going to forget what we once were for and what really is important to be for, what made America great, and that is capitalism. Some No text would argue that this idea of what they call the globalist agenda, which is to outsource our jobs versus reducing our cost and increasing availability of goods and services that we can benefit
[00:11:08] from, has hollowed out America and has caused a great economic depression for many Americans and they can't seem to find their way out of it unless we create a more protectionist trade environment. There's a lot to dislike about globalism and what that represents. And to many people and to many even libertarians, if it means a big huge treaty organizations that have labor rules and environmental rules and all these anti- capitalist rules in them, that's not really free trade or free market. But I will say
[00:11:36] that there is a fallacy and it's repeated adnauseium and it just is absolutely tr untrue and the facts will bear this out. Uh most people for the protectionism say the middle class is being hollowed out and we're being ripped off. They're both absolutely and unequivocally untrue. So if you look at household income, and there's a good website that does this, humanprogress.org will look at this. Steve Lindsey at KO is great on this. Look at household
[00:12:02] income for the last 70 or 80 years. And you look at what percentage is middle class, what are lower class, and what is upper class. The middle class 50 years ago, about 54% of the people in the middle class, and now it's 51. Everybody's like, "Aha, the middle class is shrinking." Well, the lower class was like 37%. It's now 33%. It's like, where did they go? They're being hollowed out. Yes, they're becoming rich. They're in the they're in the upper class. The upper class has grown. It's the one segment and you have to constant dollars
[00:12:32] and call the upper class above $100,000 and the middle class 50 to 100. But really, there's been a grace increase in wealth. If you look further at things like clothing, you can buy, you know, people, oh, hey, we lost the textile industry. Well, I think that's sad in a way, but you can get 10 times as many clothes as a person in 1900 could. We live twice as long. We uh by historical standards, one of the best charts is u prosperity per unit of GDP or something.
[00:13:02] And you look at it and people have called it, I think Jonathan height called it the greatest, you know, graph in the history of the world. Steven Pikner highlights this well. Same thing. Pikner does he's he's Pinker does it as well and he's great. His book Enlightenment Now is an amazing book. But anyway, this chart is for all of human history. If this is prosperity and this is time for all of human history, we lived on the x- axis. It's just an amazing chart. In about 1820, when the
[00:13:28] division of labor allowed the industrial revolution and people to think about doing other stuff, you just had this it it really is this curve that that just is extraordinary. That's the history, but nobody wants to hear this like, oh, we're being hollowed out and trade's bad. But then the second fallacy is we're being ripped off on trade. And this one, I think, is pretty easy to debunk. A million people go to Walmart last week, next week, and they all buy
[00:13:51] TVs. At the end of the year, you say, "They all bought Chinese TVs." Let's put a circle around all of these trades and the country they came for. The Chinese didn't buy crap from us. We bought all these TVs. But a million people went in and made a voluntary trade where when they left their 600 bucks, they wanted less than the TV. And Walmart wanted their $600. Every volunteer voluntary trade ever made it
[00:14:16] in humanity, every second of the day is all mutually beneficial or it doesn't occur. It's not even an equal trade. It's mutually beneficial. We both think we got it. So, how can a million people all think they got a great deal and make a trade and then I draw a circle around them and have this false accounting that says, "Oh, we all got ripped off by China." It's just not true. So, what is the origin of the fallacy? Is it a political tactic to drive votes? It's it's pride. And that's why I have
[00:14:41] such difficulty counteracting this. Now what amazes me is though for 100 years economist right left and center all decided that trade was making everybody wealthy. It's more visible if you look at the trade of the people who are poor. So the poor people got astronomically they got uh their their their multiple is much bigger because they were much poor to start with. But if you look at China and us from 1975 on we both got
[00:15:04] richer. But China was so poor that their richness is more available. They didn't rip us off. You know, this isn't Love of China. I wrote a book called The Case Against Socialism. I hate socialism. I hate communism. I I wish the people there didn't have to live under that that authoritarianism. But they didn't rip us off. And it's it's it's it's easy to sell because nationalism is easy to sell. Patriotism is easy to sell. We hate the other country. We're good. They're bad. And also anybody down their