[00:25:30] because freedom and capitalism makes us all richer and I'm going to allow you and it's going to be most mostly on merit which is better than the government deciding that. So I think you can say that and I've said it explicitly. I will never go home with a check saying we brought you this to your community because we don't have it and it has to be borrowed that makes us all poorer through inflation. It is that fear though and the president has bought
[00:25:53] into this. The president says social security we can't talk about. Medicare we can't talk about. And really on Medicaid he severely limited what could be talked about. Food stamps. They they nibbled at it. They talked about some good things but most of it's in the distant future. And and here's the bottom line. I I voted against the big beautiful bill because of the debt ceiling. But also here's the projections. The CBO had a projection
[00:26:17] that was going to add three trillion. All the Republicans said, "Oh, CBO has too low a grade throat. we can't re we can't believe the CBO. Well, the authors of the bill did something I agreed with. They said, "We're doing it based on policy and this is what we project that the taxes will go on and that they aren't really we're not giving a tax cut. Most of that is just keeping the same policy." I said, "I accept that. So, what are your numbers?" The authors
[00:26:41] of the bill, the Republican supporters of it said, "Well, the first 10 years, no, the first five years it's going to lose 500 billion. So, we'll be more 500 billion more in the hole. the second five years we'll make that up and we'll go a trillion positive so we'll be plus 500 I believe the first five years I don't believe the second five years and this is from the authors admitting and the reason you know it's going to lose 500 billion is this many tax cuts will pay for themselves over time but almost
[00:27:05] all of them have a little bit of dip in revenue in the beginning it's not a reason to be opposed to tax cuts it's a reason to at least be wary even if you don't count the tax cuts that we already had that we continued and you count the new ones there's going to be a little dip in revenue and maybe some of these weren't that growth growth related tips and things like that may not be that growth laid to reduce tax on tips. So that's going to be a dip down. But the other reason why you know the deficit's
[00:27:27] getting better, they they put $500 billion of new spending. So from the very beginning, this was this was Lindsey Graham and the military-industrial complex. They wanted more money for the military. They already got an increase in the military last time. This is 150 billion for the military and 150 billion for the border, which I'm for controlling the border. I applaud the president for controlling the border. He didn't need the 150 billion. who may, you know, 20 billion would have probably been enough to
[00:27:50] secure the border, but nobody's conservative when it comes to this. I saw your hearing where I think you challenged the the bill the amount. No text Yeah. The wall because you kind of went through the numbers and it was uh pretty pretty striking that it was on their website. The next week they changed their website because they didn't like me reciting their website back to them. Right. So, where are we headed? 37
[00:28:10] trillion of debt. If the debt gets financed at five, six% which is kind of where interest rates are trending, we're talking about an incremental trillion dollars a year of incest expense. Interest expense will probably become two trillion a year, right? We don't seem to be cutting the budget much. Everyone wants more. Everyone wants more budget for their particular interests and their states and whatnot. What's your view on where we're headed over the next 10 years? Barring a lot of
[00:28:34] Rand Paul's getting elected to Yeah, the the the left, you know, has this u modern monetary theory and it and it sounds ridiculous and it is except that it kind of worked for 10 or 15 years. So Bush doubled the debt from 5 trillion to 10 trillion, but the interest rates went in half. So his interest payments the same. You know, we went we went from five to 10 trillion with the same interest rate. We played a lot of games to do something similar. So
[00:29:00] for the last 10 years or so or maybe eight years, we averaged our payment was like one and a half uh% for the debt. That's what we were paying. Now it's three and a half. That's a pretty significant jump. But I think if they stay where they are, it's going to be even more. So we're at a trillion in interest now. Could we go to two? And what happens? All of these things are fixable. America is a great place because of capitalism. We just need to start fixing them. And it's not even
[00:29:24] draconian. just a little bit at a time. You know, for 12 years, I've been saying just raise the age three months a year for the next 20 years and and you'll be at 70. You may eventually have to go higher depending on longevity. The other thing you have to do is the age doesn't fix social security anymore. You got to means test it. And the only difference we have with the Democrats on the means testing, well, on all of it, if they would agree to any reform, they just
[00:29:47] want to tax rich people in the beginning. So, there's a limit. your social security taxes go up to about 160,000 and they're indexed to kind of keep creeping up a little bit. Um, which I can live with that. But if there's a choice whether rich people get less social security in the end or we tax them up to $10 million, I'd rather do it in the end because somebody making $10 million is investing in creating a lot of jobs and I'd rather not stop that. But I don't care if rich people have
[00:30:12] including me and I'm not that rich but I'm upper middle class and I would get less social security also. You can fix the system that way. And I think we are so dependent on it that uh it's hard to go back to a pure system where we devel it would be worked on charity and private pensions. Um but we got to get started on it. The longer you wait the more difficult it is to fix. Is there a point of no return that you view? Is there a year or a debt amount
[00:30:37] to GDP a debt ratio that becomes a reversal? There's never Well, there is a point of return of no return for a catastrophe and I don't know that. If I would, I'd be predicting the day and then I'd be fine and everybody else would get, you know, killed by the calamity. I don't know. You got to be really smart or lucky to predict those calamities. Like the people who saw the housing crisis were really smart, you know, and they they figured that happening. Um, so I
[00:31:02] don't know that it is going to happen. But I think what's important, and I tell people this all the time, you will always get your social security check. You will always get your Medicare. It will never end. But it just may not be worth anything. So there will be a point in time when we cut you your check and there are colas but um what happens when if you're if you're in 1923 in Germany and you get annual colas didn't work so
[00:31:26] well because the money was losing 30% an hour you know there were times when the German workers and was in 22 or 23 they wanted to be paid at noon because they didn't wait till the end of the day because it was depreciating so fast colas work for a while but that cost of living increases but they are somewhat of a game. You have a problem. You're creating this inflation. You You hate to punish people, so you give them a cola. But the cola comes once a year. Part of
[00:31:50] the breaking point for all this stuff that has colas on is when you need to do it every month. So that's much higher inflation. And we've been extraordinarily lucky. And I've never really seen anybody write this as accur as as um I think um detailed as that could be. I think we've exported our inflation. I think we've created so much more inflation than we have. But because we import more than we export, we pay
[00:32:13] them in the dollars. Some of them find their way back into our stock market, put our stock market up. But you can go to two dozen countries around the world and they're trading in your dollars. So the actual physical dollar never comes back on some of these trades. And so I think if you took what the M1's going up and what the money's going up, and I think you looked at it, some of it disappeared. Then they play the games with paying interest to keep it in the Fed, which I've got a bill to eliminate
[00:32:36] that right now. Um, and that bill is co-sponsored by Bernie Sanders. Um, we paid 188 billion, the Fed did, in interest to banks, not to loan money. Most of it went to five banks in New York, the big five, but 40% of it went to foreign banks. So, the Fed's buying our interest with fake money. The taxpayer still has to pay the interest back to the Fed. The Fed used to use it as profit and give it back to the Treasury, and it's a a weird game. But now, instead of at least playing the weird game, they're giving it to rich
[00:33:04] people. So this is something reminiscent of the u occupy wall street movement where you got right and left coming together. The free market is not dumb to this it seems right. So the the global free market dollar reserves according to the IMF report on central bank holdings have declined in the last decade. So it's been shown the dollar reserves have declined from 60% to 40% in the last 10 years. Meanwhile, gold has doubled from 10 to 20% of central bank holdings. And
[00:33:35] as a result, we're seeing gold prices, I think, 3,600 bucks an ounce as of yesterday. What do you think is the path here for the dollar? Like maybe we can just kind of talk to the average person listening. Where's this taking us? Because the market wakes up to this and they're saying these dollars aren't really, you know, what they used to be. I think there are two scenarios. One is the one we're used to and that's the
[00:33:58] gradual scenario. then the Fed tries to intervene to try to control uh inflation. I think they can, but I've always asked this question to very smart bankers and things. Is there a point in time at which the Fed doesn't control interest rates? And many times they'll say, well, the Fed doesn't really control the long-term interest rates after the daily stuff that it's really controlled by the marketplace, but when is there a time in which um it just becomes out of control? So you have the
[00:34:24] the government shows up and says they want to sell $20 billion of the debt. Nobody shows up and the Fed has to buy all of it. I think right now of our $36 trillion debt, the Fed has about a third of it. Uh what foreign governments have about a third and then the marketplace has about a third. Uh what happens when when when the private marketplace doesn't show up? Is there a time in which you have a Friday, they do this on Fridays, I think you do a Friday sale
[00:34:50] and nobody shows up. the Fed buys the whole thing. What do you think happens to that Monday? Do you think you'd be trying to prepare to sell sell some stock, you know, overnight before Monday opens? Um, and then I think you could have a calamity and some of it can be fixed and some of it we we live on a house of cards because and most people don't know this and I don't want to scare your audience. Will this scare your audience if I tell too much?
[00:35:10] No text It's great. It's going to get clicks and views. Yeah. Okay. This is this is this is very scary. So, you have $1,000 in your checking account and you go to the bank and you want all of it. That only works if a few of you go because the bank, I think, only holds 10% of your checking account. Now, I want the bank to loan money. So, I give them $1,000 in a CD. They pay me 2% and they loan it out for 3%. That's how banks traditionally make it money. But they they have a game. I
[00:35:41] have a a racket. This it's called fractional reserve system. And it works until it doesn't work. And once a bunch of people go crazy, a bank run. We've had bank runs even back in the 19th century. We nearly had one with Silicon Valley Bank two years ago. Exactly. Exactly. But it's really based on that and I haven't been as involved exactly with what the rate should be. But I I think lo loaning out 90% of your checking account is a recipe for a bank run. We don't have it because we just
[00:36:06] print more and we flood the system with liquidity when when people get get skittish. But there's a time at which they can't control that and it's coming. But I try to get back to simple things because I don't know when that's going to happen. Maybe it's not going to happen. The simple thing is you spend what comes in. Most people do. You borrow if you have an asset that the bank can hold like your house or something. This is what normal people do and they spend what comes in. Your
[00:36:29] government should behave that way. In the same way there are ramifications to you personally. If you overspend, you'll ultimately be punished. It's going to happen to us. And so the first thing we do, we don't even need to think about the 36 trillion. We need to think about the two trillion we're borrowing next. And that number needs to be smaller. But I can tell you people aren't getting it. I I went, you know, I asked the secretary treas the treasury secretary basent about this. I said, um, you guys
[00:36:53] are spouting all these numbers, the big beautiful bill, and it's going to be great, and there'll be no more debt, and all the Saudis are going to invest 20 trillion dollars in our country, and we'll all be rich. And I said, but the number I'm concerned about is will the deficit be bigger or smaller next year? And he said, well, um, in terms of the GDP, it will. But even that's not going to be true. The deficit next year's uh this year the one we're in that's going
[00:37:17] to end in about three weeks is going to be about 1.9 something trillion and that's going to be about 150 160 billion worse than last year and as a percentage of GDP I think it's going from six to about 6.2. So we are getting worse and it isn't I don't say this because I you know want to be mean and get the wrath of Donald Trump. I say this because as Republicans we need to be for balanced budgets, less spending no matter who's in the White House. And it's going to
[00:37:43] take some some back and forth with the president to get there. Well, I want to introduce another kind of frightening metric and statistic. So, by my estimate, and this is not reported by anyone, this is just me doing some addition in an Excel spreadsheet, somewhere around 40 to 50% of the American workforce age population earn their income from directly from a government or a government contractor. If 40 to 50% of Americans are
[00:38:13] employed directly or indirectly by a federal, state or local government or government contractor or earn their income from a government check, can we actually reduce spending? And this is a real problem when you look at our spending as a percentage of GDP, the spending part, the 7 trillion, the average over the last 5 years is about 26%. Right now we're at 23 or 24% of GDP. And I love it because the people
[00:38:39] say, "Well, we'll just have tariffs and we'll run the government off tariffs." And I said, "Well, when they did that in the 19th century, government was 3% of GDP." I'm for that. You bring me spending bills and I'll vote for all of them to make us a 19th century government of 3% of GDP and I'll vote for all your tariffs. But that's a that's a big change and it is a problem and it's sort of a two-fold problem. The people actually working for government. You got to make government smaller so we don't have as many government jobs. But
[00:39:03] the other segment is is worrisome if not more and that is the people not participating in the workforce. They're getting money but they're not participating and it's like 38 40% 42% depending on the state. So 40% of the people eligible to work able to work and not working. And this is um you know libertarians had this debate like what do you do? They don't some of them don't want any border controls. And they say
[00:39:28] and my dad used to say this and I kind of agree with this part. You need to build a wall around the welfare state and don't give any people coming into the country illegal any access to your welfare state. And I still agree with that part. I think you still have to have border security too and you have to push back on millions of people coming all at once. But there is a problem if you had like for example and people will tell you this in that have tomatoes or
[00:39:52] anything else the things that uh require handpicking you won't have enough people. But you would have enough people if Americans work. But a whole chunk 40% of them aren't working who should. But if you want to if you if you want to expel 20 million people from the country and do that, you have to simultaneously quit paying the people not to work or you won't have enough workers. There is also this argument. There was an
[00:40:16] economist by the name of Julian Simon who was a big promoter of this. Population is actually proportional to wealth. So is trade. You look at big large charts over decades and decades. The more trade you have, the wealthier you have. The more people you have, the wealthier you have. And um there was a famous bet between Paul Erlick and Julian Simon about five different commodities and whether they'd be uh more more rare after like a 10-year