[00:13:02] And you look at it and people have called it, I think Jonathan height called it the greatest, you know, graph in the history of the world. Steven Pikner highlights this well. Same thing. Pikner does he's he's Pinker does it as well and he's great. His book Enlightenment Now is an amazing book. But anyway, this chart is for all of human history. If this is prosperity and this is time for all of human history, we lived on the x- axis. It's just an amazing chart. In about 1820, when the
[00:13:28] division of labor allowed the industrial revolution and people to think about doing other stuff, you just had this it it really is this curve that that just is extraordinary. That's the history, but nobody wants to hear this like, oh, we're being hollowed out and trade's bad. But then the second fallacy is we're being ripped off on trade. And this one, I think, is pretty easy to debunk. A million people go to Walmart last week, next week, and they all buy
[00:13:51] TVs. At the end of the year, you say, "They all bought Chinese TVs." Let's put a circle around all of these trades and the country they came for. The Chinese didn't buy crap from us. We bought all these TVs. But a million people went in and made a voluntary trade where when they left their 600 bucks, they wanted less than the TV. And Walmart wanted their $600. Every volunteer voluntary trade ever made it
[00:14:16] in humanity, every second of the day is all mutually beneficial or it doesn't occur. It's not even an equal trade. It's mutually beneficial. We both think we got it. So, how can a million people all think they got a great deal and make a trade and then I draw a circle around them and have this false accounting that says, "Oh, we all got ripped off by China." It's just not true. So, what is the origin of the fallacy? Is it a political tactic to drive votes? It's it's pride. And that's why I have
[00:14:41] such difficulty counteracting this. Now what amazes me is though for 100 years economist right left and center all decided that trade was making everybody wealthy. It's more visible if you look at the trade of the people who are poor. So the poor people got astronomically they got uh their their their multiple is much bigger because they were much poor to start with. But if you look at China and us from 1975 on we both got
[00:15:04] richer. But China was so poor that their richness is more available. They didn't rip us off. You know, this isn't Love of China. I wrote a book called The Case Against Socialism. I hate socialism. I hate communism. I I wish the people there didn't have to live under that that authoritarianism. But they didn't rip us off. And it's it's it's it's easy to sell because nationalism is easy to sell. Patriotism is easy to sell. We hate the other country. We're good. They're bad. And also anybody down their
[00:15:33] luck. And I'm not saying well while the historical trend is great for for the society middle lower and and upper it's not great for everybody. So there's always pe being people aren't doing well. Those people are attracted by nationalism and they're protected by blame somebody don't blame don't blame myself or don't blame anybody else. It's somebody else's fault. So walk me through the consequences of
[00:15:52] No text tariffs. Where do they take us? Where do they take the economy? Where do they take us from an inflation perspective? from a job creation perspective onshoring which has been argued as another piece like what's your view on where this is going you know um one of my favorite sort of people complain I get a lot of complainers right now about the tariffs because they love the president and they don't love my position so much and
[00:16:15] really 75 80% of Republicans he's sold on this issue that tariffs are good but there's a I guess I'd start at the I'd start at the macro level so you have uh seven billion in spending for our federal government five billion in revenue so we're $2 billion short two trillion two trillion. It used to it used to differentiate conservatives and Republicans and Democrats. We as Republicans would say, "Yeah, deficits
[00:16:38] are bad and let's close it by lowering spending." Democrats will say, "We'll just tax the rich people." You know, rich people don't pay enough in taxes, which is also untrue. But then we'll do it that way. And that was how what differentiated us. But now everybody's like, "Oh gosh, tariffs are so good. We're going to balance the budget. We're bringing in revenue." One, it's a it's really a pittance. It's a it's a I think
[00:16:56] it's about a h 100red billion 150 billion more than last year is what's going to come in this year and that over 10 years might be $1.52 trillion but we're going to borrow like $15 trillion over the next 10 years but the when you when you look at it and you say uh from a global point of view is it good to raise taxes most Republicans always said we didn't like more taxes we we were taxed that was part of the Tea Party
[00:17:19] acronym is taxed enough already we didn't want more taxes now everybody wants more taxes it's inconsistent with who we are. But it also, the other one I love is that we're going to do it and we're going to eliminate the income tax. And I say, "Come to me with that. I don't like tariffs very much, but I'll vote for a 20% tariff." You know, I take a sale, it's a sales tax. I'll take a sales tax over an income tax. This is being presented in addition. So,
[00:17:42] everybody needs to forget what they think they're saying and understand the tariffs are in addition. But there's also an argument on the separation of powers. One of the things our our founders really struggled with was they worried about tyranny of one person and tyranny of the majority. And so the way our government is structured is to try to, as Madison said, pit ambition against ambition. And but I think they
[00:18:05] never imagined that we'd have a Congress without any ambition. We just basically said, "Oh, did President Trump go ahead just do what you want." And there's a problem with that. He's declared an emergency to raise taxes. I don't pay the taxes. We pay the taxes, but you know, there are people analyzed as a little bit done by the foreigners, a little bit done by the importer, a little bit. Yes, but it is a tax. It's a fee and we collect it here in our
[00:18:29] country. It is a tax. The constitution says taxes originate in the house. And uh you know, this one just originated with the president with not even a confirmation by the House or the Senate. when we get an AOC as a president, which I hope never happens, she's going to declare an emergency and we'll she'll say no more gasoline powered cars or lawnmowers or whatever else and they'll send police to your house. So say I'm just doing an emergency just like your president did. So there is the danger
[00:18:54] and people need to think about it and this is where the president the president well this is the problem with only being tribal and only being for your tribe when your tribe is in power. You have to think beyond this. So, for example, when Biden was in power, there were two dozen Republicans, and I was one of them, who had a reform of the emergency power that said when a president declares an emergency, it expires in 30 days unless affirmed. Right now, it's the opposite.
[00:19:19] The president's declared an emergency on tariffs. If we wanted to stop him, we could vote by simple majority. He would then veto it, and then it would take twothirds. So, right now, the way the law is set up is presidential emergencies can only be stopped by twothirds of Congress. Well, I mean, that's so dramatic it almost never happens. We'd like to reverse it. But all those Republicans who supported reform of the emergency under Biden have
[00:19:43] all bailed on me. And so when we recently had a vote directly on whether or not there was emergency with Canada, I was one of four Republicans. And most of the people who had signed on to emergency reform all of a sudden didn't care that there was an emergency under a Republican president. And none of this is to say I dislike Donald Trump. I actually like him very much as a person. Play golf with him. support probably 80% of what he's doing. Do I think he's better than Harris? Oh gosh, just a
[00:20:07] million times. I mean, I'm going do anything to stop socialism and the redistributionist, but doesn't mean I should just roll over and no longer have a thought, you know. Have you tried to align with the Democrats to try and get this emergency? It's not trying to align with them, but when they're right, I vote with them. Uh they had an emergency to overturn the emergency and I voted with them. It's a
[00:20:25] privileged vote and very rarely can people who object to the majority will of either party get votes. The only way you get votes is by using special procedures. So the emergency vote to overturn an emergency has a privilege, meaning that it has to come to the floor. So I voted with them and there were four of us, four Republicans that voted with them. No text You were also pretty well known recently for being one of three Republicans to vote against the big beautiful bill,
[00:20:49] right? Maybe you can just share the parts of the bill that you were opposed to. Increase the debt ceiling by 5 trillion. This is not only extraordinary but unheard of. No conservative in their right mind would ever vote for this under Biden. In fact, when Biden did propose stuff like this, all the conservatives voted no. So, we sort of lose who we are if we don't keep the same standard under the same presidents $5 trillion. But a lot of people don't
[00:21:14] know this, but up until the last moment, my vote was still in play because I told him I don't like a lot about it. It's also going to add to the debt. And I think that is true. And I we can go through that in a minute. But up until that morning, I met with Vance that morning. Lisa Marowski was demanding more stuff for Alaska. I didn't want anything for me or for my state in a proial way. I wanted something for the country was not not add so much debt. So I said I'll vote to increase it 500
[00:21:38] billion. And even that's like sticking a dagger in my heart. 500 billion used to be a year or two years. Now that's three months. And they said they didn't want it. I had long conversations with the president. I spoke with him for 59 minutes the week before. I noted I looked at my phone. my wife standing in the kitchen and he spoke for 58 minutes and 45 seconds and he just didn't the debt ceiling. The Democrats will never vote for it. I don't want to do it
[00:22:01] again. It's inconvenient. You know, I don't want to talk about the debt ceiling. But I won't talk about it. I'd vote on it every three months. Um not that I want us to default, but because every three months we need to talk about how we're out of whack. We need to talk about why, you know, why are these credit agencies downgrading the dollar? what happens if there is a dramatic flight from the dollar. Um the thing about economics and I don't claim to
[00:22:24] know even a tenth of what smart people know but things don't always happen gradually. You know, if you think in your lifetime or my lifetime of the different corrections in the market, they came in one or two days. You know, 2007208 came in like a day or two, right? Um there was one in the '9s, there was 1929. I think somebody told me almost all the losses in the stock market, if you take like seven days of the last century, it's like 95% of all
[00:22:49] the losses are in like seven days. But it could be worse. If there's ever a flight from the dollar and people are talking about that they have bond sales, you know, they talk about how many people show up. There's some kind of ratio and it usually it's like I don't know 2.5 to one or something. It was in the low twos, 2:1 of not many people showing up. Interest rates are still, you know, pretty pretty high. But what I've always fascinated by is people say, "Well, the interest rates are so high."
[00:23:13] But I was always taught historically that the interest rates are inflation or expectations of inflation plus the historic rate, which is about two or three points. If I take money from you for 30 years, you're not giving it to me for less than two or three points. But you also want inflation, too. So you want three points for inflation and two. Well, that's about what interest rates are. So I don't think anybody knows
[00:23:32] whether interest rates are too high or too low. I think that's a silly question, but if you looked at it in historic terms, they're about probably, you know, the market's judging them to be expected inflation plus about three points, right? But just going back to the big beautiful bill and your vote against it, right? I just want to understand how we got here or your view on how we got here. So, you've read a lot of history, a lot
[00:23:55] of philosophy. I've interviewed Ray Dalio twice. I've met him. He's a fascinating guy. talking about his cycle of empires and you know we're it his kind of thesis is we're one of six cycles right over the last 500 years and we're kind of at the the tipping point here and there's a a set of trends that are very common he says you know different characters same act you know like it happens over and over
[00:24:19] again and we take on too much debt when we the country gets wealthy it grows it the economy expands we start to get offered free money we take it we spend it all of a sudden and one of the things you we we had a dinner bipartisan in dinner with him recently and one of the things he's saying is the way to get out of this what we have to do is we have to get and his isn't even dra I think draconian we have to get 3% our debt our annual deficit needs to be 3% of GDP well it's
[00:24:42] 6% now so it'd have to be cut in half and uh I think it's very reasonable and a lot of people nodding their heads but it takes a tough vote like I voted to raise the age of social security and people say god do you hate old people I say no I aspire to be an old person I want my social security and I want the system to be around for ordinary people, but it's not going to be around unless you raise the age to 70. That's the only way it sticks around. Is it that in order to get reelected,
[00:25:05] you have to offer your voters something that they don't have today. And therefore, every election cycle, you have to show up with something else. No one ever gets elected by saying, "I'm going to cut back half or cut back a quarter or 10% of what you're getting today." You might, but is what is that the dynamic or is this I'm pretty positive that you don't have to say, "I'm going to bring on the bacon. I'm going to bring you your freedom. I'm going to keep the government out of your lives and I'm going to uh allow you to become richer
[00:25:30] because freedom and capitalism makes us all richer and I'm going to allow you and it's going to be most mostly on merit which is better than the government deciding that. So I think you can say that and I've said it explicitly. I will never go home with a check saying we brought you this to your community because we don't have it and it has to be borrowed that makes us all poorer through inflation. It is that fear though and the president has bought
[00:25:53] into this. The president says social security we can't talk about. Medicare we can't talk about. And really on Medicaid he severely limited what could be talked about. Food stamps. They they nibbled at it. They talked about some good things but most of it's in the distant future. And and here's the bottom line. I I voted against the big beautiful bill because of the debt ceiling. But also here's the projections. The CBO had a projection
[00:26:17] that was going to add three trillion. All the Republicans said, "Oh, CBO has too low a grade throat. we can't re we can't believe the CBO. Well, the authors of the bill did something I agreed with. They said, "We're doing it based on policy and this is what we project that the taxes will go on and that they aren't really we're not giving a tax cut. Most of that is just keeping the same policy." I said, "I accept that. So, what are your numbers?" The authors
[00:26:41] of the bill, the Republican supporters of it said, "Well, the first 10 years, no, the first five years it's going to lose 500 billion. So, we'll be more 500 billion more in the hole. the second five years we'll make that up and we'll go a trillion positive so we'll be plus 500 I believe the first five years I don't believe the second five years and this is from the authors admitting and the reason you know it's going to lose 500 billion is this many tax cuts will pay for themselves over time but almost
[00:27:05] all of them have a little bit of dip in revenue in the beginning it's not a reason to be opposed to tax cuts it's a reason to at least be wary even if you don't count the tax cuts that we already had that we continued and you count the new ones there's going to be a little dip in revenue and maybe some of these weren't that growth growth related tips and things like that may not be that growth laid to reduce tax on tips. So that's going to be a dip down. But the other reason why you know the deficit's
[00:27:27] getting better, they they put $500 billion of new spending. So from the very beginning, this was this was Lindsey Graham and the military-industrial complex. They wanted more money for the military. They already got an increase in the military last time. This is 150 billion for the military and 150 billion for the border, which I'm for controlling the border. I applaud the president for controlling the border. He didn't need the 150 billion. who may, you know, 20 billion would have probably been enough to