[00:30:30] and control center and destroy it. The problem, like with any weapon, is that the enemy adapts and hides. And in cancer, these are called resistant mutations. Imunotherapy was first introduced to patients a decade ago. With IIO, you don't send in your own troops. You recruit local allies, also known as T- cells, and let them do the fighting for you. Spectacular when it works, but highly dependent on the terrain or the
[00:30:57] tumor micro environment. This brings me to the reason we're here today. Modern-day radio pharmaceuticals. Like a swarm of micro drones small enough to navigate the bloodstream and find their target by molecular recognition, then detonate a precisely sized warhead with a blast radius of 100 microns or the diameter of a single cell. An autonomous assassination with the force of a bunker buster and minimum collateral damage.
[00:31:21] The company I'm going to tell you about today is Actis Oncology. The ticker is AKTS. The company has a billion dollar market cap, a $500 million enterprise value, and a stockpile of cash, which should last them over 3 years. Long past critical milestones that are coming next year. Actis was started five years ago, but recently went public with a $300 million IPO that was 18 times oversubscribed and backstopped with a
[00:31:46] hund00 million order by Eli Liy, the folks who bring you all the weight loss drugs. The company has designed a platform that can carry any radioactive payload, is complex enough to go after a variety of targets, and small enough to clear your body with minimal side effects. The beautiful thing about this approach is that physicians can verify target engagement in early clinical trials with imaging. This significantly
[00:32:08] derisks clinical development because you know the drug is getting to the tumor. Another de-risking strategy for their first few programs Actis chose known valid targets like nectin 4 and B7H3. Nectin 4 is critical in bladder cancer and the company's second program targeting B7H3 is even more ambitious expressed on every major solid tumor including the big three prostate, colurectyl and lung. Actis started clinical trials last year
[00:32:38] and is publicly guided to initial clinical data in both of these lead programs in 2027 with Nectton 4 coming as early as Q1. So you won't have to wait long. If either program shows a signal, the company is likely to get value not only for those programs but the entire mini protein platform. This is the holy grail in biotech, getting value simply for the promise of what might come. What's even more compelling is there's
[00:33:07] an amazing amount of interest in radiotherapies from pharma. The big ones including Bristol, Novartis, Bayer, and Lily who backs stop the Actis IPO have been building radiotherapy capabilities and they're hungry for assets to add to their pipelines. There's been 15 billion in M&amp;A and dealmaking in radiotherapy in the last few years and we're very much in the early innings. The neatest thing about this modality is that it's very
[00:33:29] hard to replicate. Generics generally don't traffic in radioarma and because the class involves radioisotopes it's off limits to China. So unlike most of biotech there's a real moat and now the obligatory safety warning. Axis is not for everyone. You should consult your biotech analyst before purchasing access. Initiating a position may cause increased anxiety reduced sleep through the night. Serious sometimes drops in stock rates occur in
[00:33:52] biotech. Immediately after investing may experience sudden volatility due to lang competitors. If stock declines are experienced no fun reason. Call your broker immediately to increase your position. Remember serious safety concerns have risen in other companies local development programs. While no safety concerns occur with any access program date, they may in the future. The use of many proteins delivered for
[00:34:06] sales has not been proven. Access is no market products and thus no referring revenue solution for equity offerings may occur. In the event of a secondary offering, immediately schedule a call with access management team to discuss placing an order. It's notoriously challenging to value biotech companies because when you risk adjust and discount back, you pretty quickly get to zero. For earlier stage opportunities like this, we like to
[00:34:32] triangulate. We think Actis could be worth 10 billion or $200 per share if even one of their programs makes it to market. And in this case, you have a lot of outs. >> I'm not familiar with why radioisotopes are off limits to China. So in this particular case um Actis' radioisotope payload is actinium and actinium is manufactured from radium 233 which was used in our own nuclear programs in the US in the in the 50s and 60s. So it's a
[00:35:04] waste product from there. So actinum is not even available in other countries like China because they had a completely different uh their own program was completely different with enriched uranium and plutonium. But the but the the risk for a lot of biotech and China replication came about that Amgen Sophi Supreme Court case, didn't it? Where they could you could make a small because it basically said all patents
[00:35:26] are composition of matter patents. So you could change one amino acid get around the patent and China's basically done that with a lot of biologics that are patented in the US and Europe. They just rip them off and then you attach the radio emmitting >> uh radioisotope to the molecule and you can kind of chase it. That's kind of why a lot of biotech's been depressed. Is that not true? >> Yeah. So with with with radioisotopes
[00:35:47] again because you have to you have to have a a manufacturing supply that you have to source locally in the US. Um we haven't seen any competition coming from China at all. >> And if if they have a successful readout though, would it not be like the case that someone in China would say, &quot;Hey, let's go get some of the necessary radioisotopes.&quot; And >> they're they're I'm sure they can do it for the Chinese market, but in terms of
[00:36:13] then transfer transferring that over here, we we haven't we haven't seen it or kind of any wind of it at all. >> And so then my last question, I'm sorry for monopolizing. Why do you think the markets discounted the value so much since the IPO? >> Oh gosh. Given the return in biotech >> valuation, it's pretty classic biotech. So it's traded flat since the IPO. uh biotech investors are so insanely short-term oriented that even though
[00:36:35] we're now call it eight or nine months from data that's still way too long and so our expectation is the folks will start accumulating this in the second half in anticipation of the data coming in the first quarter >> Gavin you had a question >> yeah sure so I in in in the distant past I ran a biioharmaceutical fund uh and you know it's a very hard job congratulations on those numbers but I ran that fund right after the human g
[00:37:00] genome had been sequenced and there was an expectation that the sequencing of the genome was going to lead to this explosion in therapies personalized medicines etc etc and I don't think broadly speaking we've made as much progress over the last 25 years as maybe people thought in the early 2000s and my hypothesis is that the genome is too big of a problem space for the human mind or software written by humans and AI is
[00:37:27] going to unlock a lot of kind of revolution utionary therapies. So my question to you, I will just admit it's a selfish question. It is not about your stock pitch, which is great. It's what do you think the odds are that in the lifetimes of everyone in this room, the average human lifespan in a developed country extends well past 100 to 125, 150. I would take the over on that uh in no small part because we already have
[00:37:55] one of the best longevity drugs out there and folks don't even realize it in the glip ones and the obesity drugs. So one of the only things that's ever been shown in act with actual data to extend life is caloric restriction and that's literally what all the obesity drugs do. So I'm sure half the people in this room are on one of them. Uh and that's just the beginning because it's trained people that you can inject yourself with
[00:38:15] something and have healthy living through pharmaceuticals. So I I think that's only going to continue. >> Oh, I got two questions from the audience. First one, as the launch costs per kilogram continue to fall, is there a credible pathway to use space and microgravity as a therapeutic variable given that cancer cells appear to behave differently in lowgravity environments? >> That is a great question that's probably
[00:38:37] not applicable to this. >> Okay. And then the second question, what would be a technological breakthrough that could disrupt precision radiotherapy as a result of AI at scale to drug development and precancerous screen? >> Yeah, another awesome question. There's a a small skunks work project within Actis AI project. So with all these biotech companies, they have their little proprietary data sets that they hope to leverage with various insights.
[00:39:03] So a company like this with their many proteins and everything else they're trying to accomplish, they have their own little tiny group of PhD data scientist nerds who are seeing if they can leverage that in a pretty decent way. Is it so it's been really hard to get CARTT in solid tumors? Um is it the case that these kind of personalized uh uh peptide based imunotherap uh therapies are showing some efficacy in
[00:39:28] some solid tumors and is that uh a space that's going to expand and kind of intersect here? >> What's most promising that I think a lot of folks have probably heard of is uh uh a new drug for pancreatic cancer from a company called Revmed was just another targeted therapy. So for now there's not a huge amount of progress from from peptides. And have you looked at Droins before? These kind of right-handed proteins that seem to be able to
[00:39:52] penetrate solid tumors. >> Well, so one of the one of the neat things about these mini proteins is they're hopefully of the right size to be able to deliver their payload inside of the tumors. >> Incredible. Oleg, thank you. >> Thank you. >> By the way, by the way, somebody just yoloed into the stocks while Oleg was on stage. It's up 6%. like the L. Don't do that while we're all trying to buy as well. Please come on.
[00:40:20] >> Morning everyone. My name is Kyle Samani. Uh thank you for being with us at the all liquidity today. Thanks to the besties for organizing. Today we're going to be talking about a little known asset, a little crypto asset called Geonet. Uh which is building the rails for AI. So let's jump in. Quick bit about me. Uh I founded a firm called Multicoin Capital about eight and a half years ago. I stepped down a few months
[00:40:40] ago. Um, and in my time there, I was probably most well known for, uh, leading all three rounds of investment in Salana prior to Salana's network launch, uh, in 2020. Um, I've been deep in the crypto space for a very long time. Uh, and I thought this would be a very natural forum to talk about a very interesting investment at the intersection of crypto and AI. Uh, also big shout out to David Sax. Unfortunately, he's not here, but, uh,
[00:41:02] David did seed multicoin uh, back in the day. So, thank you, David, for believing in me very early. All right, let's get into geoet. So the way to understand Geonet first is to look at GPS um probably everyone in this room has been in the situation on the left where you're using your phone and your phone is in the wrong spot facing the wrong way. Right here you can see this guy looks like he's facing a wall according
[00:41:25] to his phone. Um, Geonet it fundamentally is a new is it uses a technology called RTK or real-time kinematics where you can localize your location down to about 2 centimeters for context. GPS roughly the the precision is about 2 m. So you're getting about 100x accuracy for very precise geoloccation. Uh, as you can imagine any form of kind of robotics can make use of RTK drones being the very obvious example. I'll touch on a few more just
[00:41:53] in a couple minutes here. Um, today Geonet is the world's largest RTK network in the world and it's also the fastest growing. Um, the three companies you see on the left here, Trimble, Hexagon, and Topcon, have all been building RTK networks in some form or fashion for call it 20 to 30 years. Um, all of them combined have roughly 12,000 base stations deployed around the world. GeoNet was founded in 2021. Uh,
[00:42:16] began building out the network in 2022. Uh, and today they are roughly twice the size of the next three guys combined. Uh today's geoet is live in 150 countries around the world, more than 11,000 cities and covers roughly 80% of the global population excluding some sanctioned countries. Um so this thing is really growing quickly. Uh you might say, how did these guys build this network so fast? Uh and the key is
[00:42:37] really this decentralized crypto model. Um so here we're looking at literally a photo of a geoet base station on the roof of someone's house. The the global geoet network, those 22,000 nodes are not being built and deployed by some one that looks like AT&amp;T or Verizon. Those base stations are being deployed by any random guy or hobbyist or professional or small business owner who wants to make some extra money. You can go on the
[00:43:00] Geonodes website today. You can buy one of these base stations. They're a few hundred bucks. You put it on your roof of your house or your small business. It broadcasts radio waves. You make money. Uh you actually get paid in geode tokens, which is the really cool part about this incentive system to bootstrap this thing to get it off the ground. So the Geonet network started about 4 years ago doing this. Today it's now the
[00:43:19] largest fastest growing in the world by a pretty wide margin. If you want a sense of scale, uh here we're looking at their coverage in United States. Obviously, every single major metro is covered, but even if you look at most of the rural parts of the country, you're covering actually the vast majority of even the rural areas. Um let's talk about some of the customers and use cases for this. We'll start with
[00:43:36] agriculture first. Um the USDA actually launched a couple years ago a program to encourage farmers and ranchers to use uh precise a technologies including RTK networks. Um today actually geo the USDA is now actually subsidizing uh many farmers and ranchers all over the country uh to adopt high precision a most of which is powered by geodet. Um getting into some specific examples of that here we're looking at what's
[00:43:59] called a robotic mule. Um this is made by a company called Burrow. Uh obviously this is transporting some grapes. You could put anything on this. Has pretty obvious application for bas almost any farm or ranch you can imagine. With the advent in computer vision, CPUs, batteries, all the other AI stuff, these things are growing like hotcakes, all of them are going to be powered by Geonet or something like it. Um, here we're
[00:44:20] looking at John Deere. They have a new service uh that they rolled out recently called Global Unmanned Spraying Systems or Gus. Um, these things drive around. They literally spray plants with pesticides and other things of that like that. I did actually confirm this morning there are wineries here in Napa that are actually using John Deere Gus uh uh vehicles. That was pretty cool. So if you have some wine tonight, maybe it
[00:44:41] was powered by by Gus, which powered by Geonet. Um, obviously autonomous vehicles has a pretty obvious application for this. Um, TomTom is one of Geonet's customers. TomTom is a supplier to basically every every AV program in the world, uh, excluding maybe a couple. And today, TomTom is using Geonet's data to update their maps to get them more accurate and precise as they need to cover every square inch basically around the planet.
[00:45:06] Um, one of my favorite use cases are kind of the next wave of consumer robotics, which are getting a lot of hype these days. I think the most obvious one are robotic lawnmowers. I don't think anyone loves to mow their lawn. Um, robotic lawnmowers are now actually rolling out at pretty good scale. They're estimated they're going to sell 1 million robotic lawnmowers this year, made by companies like Yarbo, Sunseeker, and others. Um, all of those
[00:45:26] these guys are all powered by Geonet. Um, next up, let's get to drones. Um the world's largest drone manufacturer DJI is a Geonet customer. Uh it's not in all of their models, but it is in a lot of their models. Uh and so obviously DJI is sending a ton of traffic now over Geonet. Uh in the coming uh you know months and years as DJI wounds down in the US and you have new a wave of American drone manufacturers pop up. I'm
[00:45:49] going to venture to guess that most if not all of them are going to end up on the GeoNet network as well. Uh the Geonet team is based in the US has deep roots here. What I love about Geonet is it's a very obvious network effect networks effect network effects business. Um this thing looks like a natural telecom, right? You have base stations kind of all over the world. You got to cover the whole planet. Um telecoms naturally form monopolies