[00:15:54] replacement cost when the market wakes up. That's exactly we did with Equity Office properties. Sold it at the peak of the market but bought it at a discount to replacement value. Talon Energy is a power producer. They have 2 gawatts of nuclear power and they've got 6 gawatt of natural gas base load power. Today in the stock market, as a good speculation, you could purchase this company at a $25 billion enterprise
[00:16:18] value. the replacement cost is 45 billion. And because they've got debt, it means that the equity value uh just to get to replacement cost uh is more than a double uh from where it's trading today. And if you follow Sam's playbook, then we ultimately end this cycle at a big premium to replacement value. So when I see this, I say the plan for America on the power side has to be this. Make America great again. Copy China.
[00:16:54] If you look what China did over the last 20 years, we started out this cycle with having 2x the power generation that China had. Fast forward to today, China has three times the power generation capacity that we have. Now, if you believe that artificial intelligence is going to be responsible for scientific breakthroughs, you either have it or you don't have the scientific breakthroughs. If you believe that artificial
[00:17:18] intelligence is going to drive robotics, you either have it or you don't have that productivity from the robots. If you believe that artificial intelligence is going to be helpful for national security and military affairs, then you either have it or you're dead. And so this is an absolutely mandatory buildout that we have to do otherwise we're going to fall behind because at the end of the day what is a data
[00:17:42] center? You know in my world in the commodities world I look at a data center as the exact same thing as a refinery. In a traditional hydrocarbon refinery you put oil in crude oil in you refine it into jet fuel or gasoline for your car. With a data center, you put electricity in and on the other end instead of gasoline or jet fuel out comes photons or tokens or intelligence, whatever you want to call it, but it's
[00:18:06] the same thing. Big capital inensive asset, $50 billion per gawatt and power just like electricity, just like oil is the input to that refinery. So, here's Jensen and uh he was just recently quoted that we need a thousand times more power than we currently have. Now, if that's remotely true, we need every single source of power that you can imagine. We need hundreds of gigawatts of nuclear, we need solar, we need orbital, we need
[00:18:41] it all, if this is even remotely true. But the challenge as we spoke about before is the supply chain, right? All of these, you know, a data center competes for the same supply chain of the critical minerals that space launches and orbital data centers do. Power plants need all the same nickel super alloys that it takes to launch rockets and the silver that goes into these photovalttaic cells. And so and so there's going to be shortages of
[00:19:06] everything and delays everywhere. And my point here is we are just going to need every solution that we can throw at this for the foreseeable future. So here's a little region in the US called the PJM, Pennsylvania, Jersey, Maryland. Uh this is a forecast from the grid operator where they say that over the next 10 years we're going to need 106 gawatts of new power in the PJM in just one little area of the US. Now in
[00:19:35] 10 years in geological time that's like tomorrow morning right we're all so used to internet time you press a button and you get your food delivered to you or your car picks you up in two seconds you know building infrastructure happens in geological time 10 years to build out 106 gawatt is literally a nancond from now and you know you see that thermal coal retirements we ain't retiring those coal plants because there's no world
[00:19:59] where we're going to be building 100 gawatt in 10 years that's the size of what Japan consumes today for one little part of the US. And you know what I'll say is those that understand the supply chain and what goes into building all this, everybody's in panic mode because we know that we don't have the raw materials to meet this level of demand that's coming our way. So that's going to keep existing capacity and power
[00:20:26] prices very tight. Now the data center and the hyperscalers are in a panic. They're trying everything they can to source as much power as they can under long-term PPAs power purchase price agreements at fixed prices for 20 years. There's a famous example, you know, I thought Microsoft was a green company, but they went and convinced Constellation Energy, which is a company that owns the 3M island nuclear reactor,
[00:20:53] you know, the one that melted down and created, you know, the nuclear meltdown that gave nuclear a bad name for 30 years. It was Microsoft that told them they needed to start it up. And in order to incentivize to stimulate their hand to wallet reflex to start this thing up, they said, &quot;Power prices stay $50 a megawatt hour. We'll pay you a hundred a year for 20 years minimum price for you guys to start this up.&quot; And so here we
[00:21:19] have it. Uh 3M Island brought to you by Microsoft Azure. So, you know, it's getting harder to do these deals because the regulators are saying, &quot;Wait a minute. If you're taking all this power off the grid for your data center, how are we going to heat the homes of our customers?&quot; And so, uh, you know, it we're getting ourselves into the moment of what I call crunch time. So, just to finish up, uh, here are the numbers on
[00:21:45] Talon. Um, the stock today is sort of in the high 300s. If they just do absolutely nothing, just absolutely nothing, just sit there and run the business, let their Amazon data center contract roll up, these guys will be generating $50 a share of free cash flow per year. Again, the stock is in the high 300. So, it's about seven times free cash flow. Good infrastructure assets in the US, traded about 15 times.
[00:22:12] So, that's pretty good. You get a double for basically management just sitting around and doing nothing. But if they continue to figure out ways to sign contracts with data centers at premium prices or if power prices go up. I mean the amazing thing right now is in the PJM where these guys operate, the power price is still too low to stimulate new capacity. The math still doesn't work, which is really mindboggling. So if
[00:22:36] power prices go up a bit, they do more deals, you get to $70 a share of recurring annual free cash flow, put a 15 multiple on that, that's,50. But then if they get into building power plants, right? And right now the regulator is telling these companies to go sit in a room, power producer, data center, come in a room, make a deal so that you build power and get a good return on it. And the data center gets their power gets a good return on it.
[00:23:01] And Talon is in a pole position to be able to do this. If they just build like 4 gawatt of the 100 gawatts that we need, you could get up to, you know, over $100 a share of free cash flow. The stocks in the high30s today. So, uh, go and buy the shares. It's a good speculation and, um, we can chat. >> All right. Not financial advice. Gavin, go. >> Gav and go. >> I just, just very curious like how do you think about regulatory risks here?
[00:23:26] Nobody likes their electricity prices going up. AI is an increasingly political issue just like how do you think about that risk? >> We need AI and we need to figure this out. And so there's different ways to skin a cat here, right? My personal view is during peak hours, right? If you go drive down a highway at 4 in the morning, you know, you would sit there and say, &quot;Why do we have all this highway capacity? This is crazy.&quot; But
[00:23:51] then you go on that same highway at rush hour, you're like, &quot;Oh, we don't have enough highway capacity. There's not enough lanes.&quot; Power is the same thing. There's only a few hours a day where you really stress the system. And so I think the working solution to get around this regulatory issue is you do the PPAs with the data centers. You force the data centers to throw a ton of battery behind it and some peakers just to get through
[00:24:14] that really intense period. And then uh that's a good band-aid solution until we build more power. So there's ways to do this. Human ingenuity is going to win here. We're going to get our data centers and consumer power bills are going to be, I think, relatively under control. They're going to go up, but they're going to be under control. Okay, Dan, I have three questions from the audience. Really good ones. Number one,
[00:24:34] does your thesis actually need behind the meter collocation to clear or is it just a bet that clean firm base load is scarce enough that it doesn't matter whether power flows in front of or behind the meter? It's the latter. And that's why I gave three scenarios, right? The $50 a share of earnings per share. Again, a high $300 stock, right? $50 a share of earnings. Nothing has to happen. You just sit, right? And you
[00:24:58] double your money. Now, if you get more behind the meter or even front of the meter, that's how you get up to that $70 a share of earnings from 50. And then if you get up to the 70, but start building new capacity, then you get to the $100 plus. >> Okay. Question two from Brad. How do you think about competition for power from things like fuel cells, gas turbines, aerodyit turbines, orbital compute, and other sort of IPs, independent power
[00:25:24] producers. >> We need all of it. We need all of it. We we you know fuel cells and you know the Caterpillar solar turbines these are fantastic bridge solutions but the cost to run these things the LCOE is like through the roof but you you know look to build a $50 billion data center you don't want it to sit idle for 3 years waiting for your base load CCGT so you do whatever it takes you don't give a crap what you pay for that bridge
[00:25:46] solution and so we're finding ways through fuel cells through uh you know Caterpillar solar turbines hopefully through orbital data centers where we can alleviate this because I want AI to happen in a really big way and we're going to need all the above. >> Okay, question three. By the way, great questions guys. Thank you for these. What is the right terminal multiple for Talon if the business mix shifts from
[00:26:09] merchant IP to contracted infrastructure? >> Fabulous question >> and and and the addendum here and what percentage of EBIDA needs to be contracted before the market should rerate it? So, that's a great question and and I only had six minutes to do this and I think I blew through my time so I couldn't get into this kind of detail, but it's something I would have really wanted to get into. So, whoever asked that, thank you. Uh, I just use
[00:26:31] the 15 multiple because it's sort of a blended multiple between the contracted stuff, which will get a big premium multiple because, you know, it's a bond like cash flow stream and bond like cash flow streams trade at a small spread to treasuries and so treasuries if they're at 5% should trade at 20 times plus some growth or whatever, plus or minus. the uncontracted stuff, the merchant stuff that has spot market exposure is more
[00:26:52] volatile, less visible, that should trade at a lower multiple. We can get into the minutia, but just suffice to say, the more contracts, the higher the multiple, the less the lower the multiple. Use 15 times as a good rule of thumb, and you'll probably get to the right answer, which is what I used. >> That last question from Daniel Sherer. Thank you for that, >> Dan. Thank you. That was great. >> Great. Thanks.
[00:27:18] My name is Oleg Nelman. I'm the founder and managing director of Eco1 Capital, a San Francisco based valueoriented biotech fund uh that I started about 13 years ago. Thanks a lot to the besties for having me here. I'm a huge fan of the pod like I'm sure all of us are and I know how challenged Science Corner can get. So, I wrote this in a way that even David Saxs would appreciate and pay attention to if if he were here.
[00:27:45] >> Well, paradoxically, he's taking a nap, which is what he normally does during science corners. >> Exactly. >> Generally speaking, investing in biotech companies is a horrible idea sandwiched somewhere between movies, wineries, and spaxs. In fact, our sector often feels a lot more like a casino than an actual financial market. And most of the tourists who are investing are playing the slots. Of course, at Eco1, we consider
[00:28:14] ourselves poker players in a sector where virtually everyone else is a momentum investor betting on science. We focus on margin of safety. We're one of the few funds not managed by PhDs or MDs, and that's by design because we don't want to fall in love with the science. We fall in love with the riskreward. And like the slide says, we want to monetize other kids science projects. This is my 25th year investing in
[00:28:39] biotech. I started my career with an 11-year stint at another fund and launched Eco R1 in 2013, humble beginnings with 13 million. Since inception, we've 10xed to our investors and annualized at 20%. And today we have about two and a half billion under management. We're lucky to have long-term partners, many of whom are biotech entrepreneurs themselves, and have been with us since day one. And we recently reopened for
[00:29:03] the first time in four years. Today I'm going to tell you about a company that's on the front lines of the war on cancer. Military terminology has been used when descri describing treatments for the disease since the early 70s when President Nixon signed the National Cancer Act. The warfare analogy is actually perfect. The warfare actually is actually perfect for cancer because both domains are trying to accomplish the exact same
[00:29:33] thing. find the enemy, figure out the best weapon to kill them, and have minimal unwanted casualties along the way. First, a quick history of how this war has evolved. Early surgical cancer treatment and radiation was akin to a medieval siege. Level the entire castle, burn the surrounding village, and hope the enemy was left somewhere in the rubble. Chemo actually evolved from an accidental observation during World War
[00:30:03] I that mustard gas killed rapidly dividing tissue. Tumor cells divide fast, so doctors would flood a patient's body with chemo and hoped it killed the enemy faster than it killed allies. Unfortunately, hair, skin, gut, and marrow cells also divide quickly, and the poison doesn't discriminate. First generation targeted therapies were next, like a GPS guided munition. Instead of carpet bombing every dividing cell, you identify the enemy's command
[00:30:30] and control center and destroy it. The problem, like with any weapon, is that the enemy adapts and hides. And in cancer, these are called resistant mutations. Imunotherapy was first introduced to patients a decade ago. With IIO, you don't send in your own troops. You recruit local allies, also known as T- cells, and let them do the fighting for you. Spectacular when it works, but highly dependent on the terrain or the
[00:30:57] tumor micro environment. This brings me to the reason we're here today. Modern-day radio pharmaceuticals. Like a swarm of micro drones small enough to navigate the bloodstream and find their target by molecular recognition, then detonate a precisely sized warhead with a blast radius of 100 microns or the diameter of a single cell. An autonomous assassination with the force of a bunker buster and minimum collateral damage.
[00:31:21] The company I'm going to tell you about today is Actis Oncology. The ticker is AKTS. The company has a billion dollar market cap, a $500 million enterprise value, and a stockpile of cash, which should last them over 3 years. Long past critical milestones that are coming next year. Actis was started five years ago, but recently went public with a $300 million IPO that was 18 times oversubscribed and backstopped with a
[00:31:46] hund00 million order by Eli Liy, the folks who bring you all the weight loss drugs. The company has designed a platform that can carry any radioactive payload, is complex enough to go after a variety of targets, and small enough to clear your body with minimal side effects. The beautiful thing about this approach is that physicians can verify target engagement in early clinical trials with imaging. This significantly
[00:32:08] derisks clinical development because you know the drug is getting to the tumor. Another de-risking strategy for their first few programs Actis chose known valid targets like nectin 4 and B7H3. Nectin 4 is critical in bladder cancer and the company's second program targeting B7H3 is even more ambitious expressed on every major solid tumor including the big three prostate, colurectyl and lung. Actis started clinical trials last year
[00:32:38] and is publicly guided to initial clinical data in both of these lead programs in 2027 with Nectton 4 coming as early as Q1. So you won't have to wait long. If either program shows a signal, the company is likely to get value not only for those programs but the entire mini protein platform. This is the holy grail in biotech, getting value simply for the promise of what might come. What's even more compelling is there's