[00:59:38] based on the order provocative idea. Yeah. Basically if you make the deliveries less expensive 10 times as fast and just a way better experience people order a lot more. Not that surprising. So, I think the the reality is actually, you know, these kinds of systems will yes, definitely be less expensive than using a 4,000lb gas combustion vehicle. Um, but I think more importantly, the reason customers are using them so much is it's just a way better experience when you can have something delivered in 7 minutes or 8
[01:00:03] minutes or 12 minutes. Um, you have to much cheaper. Um, I think it will be naturally, but I don't believe it needs to be. I mean, it's the reason that like Whimo right now is more expensive and people prefer Whimo to to What's the weight limit and then how much of the market does that address? Yeah. I mean, right now we the the system is designed to deliver up to 8 lb and 8 lb gets you like 95% of all packages delivered by Amazon. I think it's like 95% of food delivery orders.
[01:00:29] So, suffice it to say, you're not going to deliver flat screen TVs in this way anytime soon. But the vast majority of stuff actually fits and can be delivered like this. So while this is all happening, while zipline is exploding, I think many Americans came to believe that the the era of drone delivery had somehow passed, that this wasn't a near future that they were going to experience. Why do you think that misconception happened? And what should
[01:00:52] all of the people in this audience go out and say to the people who might ask them what they've seen here? Yeah. Well, it definitely didn't help that the CEO of one of the largest companies in the in the world went on 60 Minutes in 2013 and promised everybody drone delivery in the next like, you know, one or two years, right? Maybe some of you guys saw that interview. Who was it? I don't even know what that interview was. Jeff from Amazon. Yeah. He was like 2013. He's like, "Oh, well, you know,
[01:01:15] we'll be doing Yeah. So, he I mean they promised, you know, they announced Amazon Prime and they said by 2015, you know, it'll be serving, you know, everybody in the US." And um I think that that you know people probably believed it right like and and then I think people were really disappointed when it didn't happen and maybe you know similar trend that you see hap happened with autonomous vehicles you know autonomous cars which
[01:01:37] is that like 2015 so many companies were raising you know billions of dollars and it was like right around the corner and people could see it working for the first time. But obviously it's a whole decade later today that we actually now see Whimo and robo taxi scaling commercially. The reality is with these kinds of technologies, I think you always have like the bubble and and the max hype and then you have the trough of disillusionment and then you have the 8 to n years of the actual hard work of
[01:02:00] making the technology work. And you know, Zipline um launched in 2016. We've spent 10 years driving the economics down, driving the reliability up. You you kind of saw that statistic of 115 million miles with zero safety incidents. Um that's hard. It requires time to get manufacturing technology uh operations, maintenance right in a way to achieve that. And um you know, but the but the the good news is that uh I
[01:02:27] think with with both autonomous cars and with this technology, we're now you know, we've now done the 10 years of hard work and we now see it scaling in a way that like just fundamentally changing the way people live their lives. I mean, when you when I talk to that grandma or you like you talk to a mom who's using Zipline every single day, it's like they're getting hours back a week to spend with their family or their loved ones so they don't have to spend stressing out about trying to like get kids buckled into a car and
[01:02:50] like drive to a car or and obviously that's like, you know, that's that's the retail use cases, let alone the life-saving implications this has for healthcare logistics. What are the competitive barriers? Google's had I think in X a drone delivery. I don't know what the status is. Amazon obviously has invested by the way I thought it was like either Elon or someone from Google or Jeff. Um and then uh there have been a mtoan I think out
[01:03:14] of China famously shown videos of delivering food to the Great Wall with a drone. How much advantaged is Zipline versus others and how quickly can they catch up? Like help us understand how hard the tech is? What did you have to engineer to get the unit costs advantages that you're having today and how persistent will that be? I mean, you know, I I think there are a lot of people out there, you know, we saw over the last 10 years so many companies or
[01:03:41] teams, they would like buy a quadcopter off the shelf and duct tape a Snickers bar to the bottom of it and then manually fly it a mile and they get like, you know, Techrunch to write an article about it and be like, "It's a Kittyhawk moment. Drone delivery is here." Um, and you know, we've seen that like 50 times at this point. I think people have kind of know that it's not real. Um the you know the the trick is
[01:04:00] designing a system that can operate 24/7 365 in a way that people can depend on with their lives that works in all weather that can be reliable and safe and they can achieve hundreds of millions or you know billions of autonomous miles. um that's hard to do. That takes time. And um you know, I mean, Zipline uh has now spent a decade scaling these systems. And and I think the realization is there's no like off-the-shelf hardware you can buy for
[01:04:25] this because there's you can you can look at like these cheap plastic quadcopters that DJI makes refer to China or you can look at like Predator drones, but something in the middle which is more automotive grade, something that can do, for example, a million miles just a single aircraft. um that's hard and it kind of has to be built from scratch. So we honestly don't worry that I mean our competition is motorcycles and cars. Like if we are
[01:04:50] better than motorcycles and cars, I mean I'm very confident someone is going to build a multiundred billion dollar company in automated logistics over the next 5 to 10 years. Like it's so obvious that this needs to exist. The demand is like unbelievably vast. It's going to be one of the biggest markets on earth. And uh you know I think a lot of people are excited about a lot of different kinds of robotics but this is the area of robotics that in my opinion is going to scale the fastest and is like most ready
[01:05:12] for prime time. You want to talk about Wakanda? I do. So just to jump ahead. Yeah. If we were interviewing you here in 10 years you're back. What do you hope you're saying about the impact of drone delivery both on the golden billion but also for everybody else? And to your point earlier the relationship between those two things and those two groups might be closer than we think. Yeah. the the thing that always really inspired us, you know, you talk about logistics. I mean, logistics is boring,
[01:05:39] right? Like I mean, who wants to work in logistics? It's incredibly boring. You just do the same thing day after day, just like doing the same deliveries. But that's also what makes it great for robotics and automation. And I think the thing, the key thing to realize is the golden billion that Cleo is talking about, right? The richest billion people on Earth. Like the go my assumption is we're all in the golden billion. Like our access to logistics is really good. There are 7 billion people on Earth who
[01:06:04] are not in the golden billion whose access either sucks or is non-existent. And as a result of that, five and a half million kids lose their lives every year due to lack of access to basic medical products. This is not like, oh, we have we need some advanced therapy to it's like, no, no, we couldn't get them the basic almost free drug that they needed to save their life. You know, we making excuses for decades about why we can't solve these problems. And so I think
[01:06:28] like logistics is boring, but it's kind of only boring when it's like working well for you. And I think that, you know, the the the thing that gets me so excited about why does AI and robotics matter? Why should we be applying it to this industry? It's not just like make people's lives better, give them new kinds of economic opportunity, save them time, you know, let them spend more time with their kids. It's also because like reducing the cost of logistics,
[01:06:52] automating it, expanding it, um improving the performance of these kinds of systems is going to extend access to logistics to 7 billion people on Earth who don't have it today. And that is going to save lives, increase economic opportunity. I think it's going to make the world a more stable place. And and and so that's that's really our vision. It's like um it's time to stop making excuses. We should eliminate these problems. And the thing that gets me excited about, you know, you I mean I
[01:07:16] know we're both kind of like solar punk techno optimists, right? Um like that's the future that I want to build that I want to tell my kids about. And um you know, if we can play a small part of it, that would be a good life. That's the future I think we all want to be part of. Amazing. Guys, please join me in thanking Keller and Cleo. Did you guys love Science Corner?