[00:32:05] what you do. Now applying that as you wanted to do to the whole universe. I don't think that the correspondence is such that the expansion that we see is the reversal effect of um this um going toward the singularity because uh well because of some technical issues. Again if you look at the mathematics there are some interesting correspondences but they shouldn't be taken too too literally in most cases. Okay. Yeah. So the question I would be wondering if I were in the audience listening to we have a expanding
[00:32:40] universe. It is uh potentially infinite. My question would be so where is everybody? Yeah. So yeah where are they all the fairmy paradox? Is the great filter in front of us is the question. Yeah. I actually think the great filter is in front of us. It's a an idea where uh civilizations such as ours rarely get past this point uh where they can achieve interstellar travel easily and stuff. Something happens either
[00:33:07] intentionally or unintentionally or through neglect they get destroyed. All right. And uh I I I actually think that first life at our level is very rare. I'm not saying we're alone, okay? But very rare. And the second punch of the one-two punch is that there's almost always a great filter. And so rarely do civilizations reach interstellar capability to the extent where they colonize a galaxy. If it had happened
[00:33:35] even once in our Milky Way, we would easily see the aliens here. Not just the sketchy UFO evidence, okay, that's been presented. Doesn't reach the bar of credibility and science, by the way. Uh, but we would be the aliens more likely, right? Because they would already have colonized Earth and we would have been the aliens. So, I think they're makes sense to maybe not travel and just transmit information back and forth and maybe we just don't know how to see or understand the information that's being
[00:34:04] sent our way and we don't know how to transmit it. Yeah, certainly communication techniques could be different. So, I I'm not saying we know at all. And, you know, there could even be this dark forest where they're intentionally, you know, uh not transmitting toward us cuz they don't want us to know about them. They're sort of maybe even pursuing us and stuff going to kill us before we kill them. Um these are all possibilities you know but um I think
[00:34:28] the most likely in my view is that the what I said and also the vastness of space means that we wouldn't be able to communicate or or hear from um aliens that were much farther away than you know 100 or a thousand lighty years and the galaxy is 100,000 light years in uh space in in extent. So unless they colonize the galaxy, if they're very rare, we won't see them because the the signals are too faint and they haven't had a chance to to get here. You know, I
[00:35:00] I want to give you an opportunity to share with us uh what's going on with respect to hiring graduate students and funding research right now. Yeah. I've heard from lots of scientists uh that NIH grants have been cut. Yeah. And it's affecting their ability to hire and build out their labs and do some of their research. are you seeing the same today and maybe just give us a sense of on the ground what's going on with respect to what you're seeing in
[00:35:27] funding. Yeah. Uh the issue is a very serious one. Um in a sense, you know, science is is under attack to some degree, intentionally or unintentionally, maybe part of a a broader thing. Uh but it's it's having an enormous effect. The number of National Science Foundation graduate fellowships, for example, was cut in half this year. NASA funding has been cut in half and I'm all for going to the moon and Mars. But if all of the remaining NASA funding goes toward those ideals, then nothing will be left for
[00:35:59] professors and their students and postocs to analyze the great data that the Hubble and Web and all that are are giving us and and various space telescopes are now in jeopardy of not being launched. The Nancy Grace Roman telescope and stuff. So graduate schools are um now reluctant to to accept new graduate students and to hire new postocs because frankly we don't have the funding with which to do so. And I'm
[00:36:25] personally very worried about my own research group. I'm not taking on any new researchers until I personally can fund my existing group. That's got to be my my primary concern right now. and I don't know how I'm going to do it, you know, and others throughout my field and even in a sense you could say more immediately useful fields like NIH you said, right? Cutting the funding there. These are researchers who are going doing things that are going to be good for humanity soon, not these
[00:36:55] unanticipated spin-offs, but the kind of stuff I do should be supported as well. Yeah. Well, um, you know, I was a physics and math major. I don't know if I would have gotten the math degree, I'll be honest. But, um, I took Alex's Astro 10 class cuz I was partying a little bit too much that year and I'm like, I got to take an easier class. I heard it's a great 800 people in the class. The most inspirational class I've
[00:37:17] ever taken and every student that's taken it says the same. And Alex became nine times, 10 times, I don't know how many times, the favorite professor at Cal Berkeley. And I think you can all understand why his contributions to students and to science are profound. So, please join me in thanking Alex. Thank you. Thanks so much. No text Regulators are now approving drone deliveries. There is one company that is huge in
[00:37:44] this space. They're called Zipline. Keller Renado Clifton is the co-founder and CEO of Zipline, the world's largest autonomous logistics and delivery system. We should get back to like building real things in the real world. What they've been showing is way more advanced than anything from Google or Amazon. What nerds are working on during the weekends in their garages today are what will be the giant companies of five or 10 years from now. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Zip
[00:38:10] Lines Keller Ronaldo Clifton. Well, good morning everybody. So, David was talking a little bit about technesses. I hadn't heard that before, but by a quick show of hands, how many of you have read an article in the last year about robots trying to kill you or take your jobs? Okay, so basically everybody, the cool thing is today we get to talk about robots that save lives. And I thought it'd be cool to just take you back to 2016. Uh in in 2016, you know, we had
[00:38:46] been our our backgrounds were in automation and robotics. We had this simple naive idea that it should be it should be possible to build a new kind of logistics system a fully automated logistic system that would be 10 times as fast half the cost and zero emission. The first contract we signed was with the government of Rwanda to deliver blood transfusions primarily to moms with postpartum hemorrhage um at about
[00:39:10] 21 different hospitals across the country. And so I thought it'd be cool to just show you this video. It's actually a video I took on my iPhone. So nothing nothing fancy but you can actually see uh what we call zips that this is the very first version of this autonomous aircraft that we had built. We were delivering using a really simple paper parachute to a hospital called Cubai which is in a rural part of Rwanda. Here we were delivering I think three units of packed red blood cells
[00:39:33] and platelets. We could deliver to a couple parking spaces um in a way that was about 10 times as fast. Uh and you can see the women in this in this video are like what the hell did we just see? which is funny. You know, I was taking the video. I kind of looked up at them and they were looking at me very suspiciously. You know, we often try to describe, it's a funny thing about what we do. We try to describe uh what we're going to do to either to doctors or to nurses or hospital administrators and
[00:39:59] they look at us like, you know, we're completely crazy or on drugs. You know, and so we have to do the first delivery. Once we do that first delivery, a doctor looked at me and said, "It's as though Jesus Christ is delivering blood from the sky." But what's what's hilarious is that, you know, you get about seven days the way, you know, the way we work as humans, you get about seven days of science fiction
[00:40:21] amazement and then people are completely bored of it. Like it's totally normal. In fact, I had one nurse look at her watch and then look at me and say, "It's 30 seconds late." Which made me realize, you know, humans go from science fiction to entitlement in approximately 7 days, which is great. That's what technology should do. you know, it should fade into the background like let doctors and nurses do the work that they were trained to do which is save lives and logistics should just work.
[00:40:48] That was always the vision. So, quick tour of the distribution center. Uh, you know, Zipline builds uh designs, manufactures and operates these vehicles completely from scratch. This is one of our flight operators launching a zip. Accelerates from zero to about 100 km an hour in a third of a second. From the moment the vehicle leaves the end of that launcher, it's fully autonomous. It will fly out up to 100 miles to make a delivery to a hospital and then fly all the way back.
[00:41:17] Why do we have to have a launcher like that? Because we don't have runways, obviously, and the vehicle has no landing gear. So, taking off is one thing. Landing is even a little bit more complicated. We were inspired by aircraft carriers. This vehicle, as it's flying back, We're aiming for a 1 centimeter tail hook on the back of that aircraft. This really only possible with autonomy and you know robotic solutions that can be far far more precise in controlling
[00:41:40] these kinds of vehicles than humans. The system at this point can recover an aircraft about every 60 seconds and we operate about 20 distribution centers uh across eight countries. So people always think like oh uh you know drone delivery it's not really real. So I thought it'd be cool to actually just show you a time lapse. This is one of our distribution centers. You can see it's 1:00 a.m. The system operates 24/7, 365. They never
[00:42:04] take a day off. It's, you know, 3:00 a.m. here. You're seeing fulfillment operations where we're packing and loading packages, getting them packed into vehicles. Here you can see the launcher and the recovery system with like sunrise just happening in the back at 5 or 6 a.m. Um, this is a second distribution center, another fulfillment center. And so this is all basically both fulfillment centers across the country of Rwanda, which is the smallest
[00:42:25] country we operate in today. But the cool thing is you can see that at 8 a.m. every single one of these little triangles on the map, this is what we call the sky map, is an autonomous aircraft going out making a life-saving delivery of blood, vaccines, transfusions, infusions, cancer products, almost the entire public healthcare supply chain. And by 10:00 a.m., there are 50 autonomous aircraft out making deliveries simultaneously to all of the 500 hospitals and health facilities that we serve in the country.
[00:42:50] So, I actually used to show this uh video to investors and we would get to the end of the presentation and they would say, "Oh, I think my favorite slide was that simulation of what this could look like one day." And I got so pissed off because it's like it's not a simulation that happened yesterday. So, we put we put the CCTV on the right hand side so you can actually see the teams doing this work so people understand this is this is not like far future. This is happening day in and day out in
[00:43:13] a way that is saving lives. And you know on that point it's not just about making logistics more efficient. It turns out that if you can deploy AI and robotics infrastructure for healthcare you can save a lot of lives. The system has been able to reduce maternal mortality as measured by the University of Pennsylvania by 51% across the hospitals we serve. Had had you told us when we were starting the company that we were going to reduce maternal mortality by 5%. We would have said hell yes we have to do
[00:43:45] this. The a new study came out uh a couple months ago actually showing a 60% reduction in under five childhood mortality due to malnutrition. One of the new products we've begun delivering in the last few years. And when this was studied uh uh by a major global health institution for the cost effectiveness of delivering vaccine, it was found to be the most cost effective way of delivering vaccines to zero dose children ever studied. So, it turns out
[00:44:09] that, you know, yeah, it's exciting. People think about robotics as being expensive or fancy or maybe solving problems for rich people. It's not just that. We can solve some of the most important problems that we face as a world. We can um we can make this technology work for um for everybody. So, you know, stepping back, Zip Lines now surpassed 115 million commercial autonomous miles. We serve about 5,000 hospitals and health facilities
[00:44:38] globally, over 1.6 million deliveries like that one you saw in that video. Um, and zero safety incidents, which is important, not just saving lives, but safe for the communities that it serves. It's actually become the largest commercial autonomous system on Earth of any kind, ground or air, based on those flight miles. So, I now thought it'd be kind of cool to just show you a bit about how this technology is evolving, how what we what we started doing in 2016 is evolving and into the next
[00:45:01] generation technology and launching in the US. We play this. Wow, that was so cool. We love the fun. So if you're like okay that's cool but when can I use it? Uh the news is ve the good news is very soon. So just to give you a sense it's you know as we started doing this focusing on healthcare focusing on operating outside the US a lot of the biggest brands in the US started to get pretty excited and saying hey we want teleportation from our
[00:46:27] hospitals or our primary care facilities or our stores or our restaurants directly to customer homes. And so, not only did a lot of the biggest health care systems in the US um sign up to start using Zipline, but we've also seen these additional major verticals in food and retail. Um we've been scaling incredibly fast with Walmart over the last 6 to9 months. We just launched Chipotle along with a lot of other amazing food partners over the last
[00:46:49] month. I'll show you a little bit more about what that looks like. One of the kind of amazing things, you know, over the last 3 months, the service has been growing about uh between 20 and 30% week-over- week. So it's more than doubling flight volume every month. This is a little bit startling. Uh we only launched Dallas, which is kind of the major metro we're scaling in in the US right now in April. And uh by July, so
[00:47:11] ju just just to give a sense the customer behavior that we're seeing. Customers are ordering three to four times per week from Zipline. The service has a net promoter score of 94. And I was talking to a grandma a couple weeks ago. Uh she's 78 years old. She's ordered from Zipline 350 times in the last nine months. We were we were doing a little customer research and she's showing me on her phone, you know, like clicking around ordering everything she needs for the day. She's double click, you know, Face ID, Apple Pay. She's
[00:47:36] like, "It's on its way. It'll be here in 8 minutes. This woman's living in the future." But by by July, we were actually sufficiently nervous about uh you know, about the capacity of the system. We we ended up turning off all the demand generation marketing um because we were trying to slow down growth. So, you can see the impact that turning off our marketing had on the growth of the system. which is approximately zero. And we were
[00:48:00] trying to figure out why that is. And basically, it just turns out that having a robot deliver whatever you need to your home in less than 10 minutes is really good content for Tik Tok. Um, a lot of our different customers have been making tons and tons of Tik Toks of of of receiving these deliveries and a you know, a lot of these videos have gone viral like they they get seen 8 10 12 million times. We're delivering
[00:48:22] to universities, to offices, to hotels, to town homes, to apartment buildings. So, every time one person is getting a delivery, there are 10 other people who are like, "What the hell is that? And how do I get it?" Even cooler than that, uh, you know, as we're launching new sites in Dallas, you know, the first site that we launched in April, it took us about two and a half months to get to 100 deliveries a day, which was kind of like the the, you know, uh, break even point for the site.
[00:48:46] Uh, the site that we launched two weeks ago hit 100 deliveries a day in 5 days. So, we're seeing the sites themselves ramp way, way faster. And a big part of that is that it's getting simpler and simpler for us to build this infrastructure. So, just for you to kind of get a sense for what the infrastructure looks like, you know, we integrate right into the side of hospitals, primary care facilities, stores, restaurants, you basically can just think of it like a magical portal.