[00:46:49] month. I'll show you a little bit more about what that looks like. One of the kind of amazing things, you know, over the last 3 months, the service has been growing about uh between 20 and 30% week-over- week. So it's more than doubling flight volume every month. This is a little bit startling. Uh we only launched Dallas, which is kind of the major metro we're scaling in in the US right now in April. And uh by July, so
[00:47:11] ju just just to give a sense the customer behavior that we're seeing. Customers are ordering three to four times per week from Zipline. The service has a net promoter score of 94. And I was talking to a grandma a couple weeks ago. Uh she's 78 years old. She's ordered from Zipline 350 times in the last nine months. We were we were doing a little customer research and she's showing me on her phone, you know, like clicking around ordering everything she needs for the day. She's double click, you know, Face ID, Apple Pay. She's
[00:47:36] like, "It's on its way. It'll be here in 8 minutes. This woman's living in the future." But by by July, we were actually sufficiently nervous about uh you know, about the capacity of the system. We we ended up turning off all the demand generation marketing um because we were trying to slow down growth. So, you can see the impact that turning off our marketing had on the growth of the system. which is approximately zero. And we were
[00:48:00] trying to figure out why that is. And basically, it just turns out that having a robot deliver whatever you need to your home in less than 10 minutes is really good content for Tik Tok. Um, a lot of our different customers have been making tons and tons of Tik Toks of of of receiving these deliveries and a you know, a lot of these videos have gone viral like they they get seen 8 10 12 million times. We're delivering
[00:48:22] to universities, to offices, to hotels, to town homes, to apartment buildings. So, every time one person is getting a delivery, there are 10 other people who are like, "What the hell is that? And how do I get it?" Even cooler than that, uh, you know, as we're launching new sites in Dallas, you know, the first site that we launched in April, it took us about two and a half months to get to 100 deliveries a day, which was kind of like the the, you know, uh, break even point for the site.
[00:48:46] Uh, the site that we launched two weeks ago hit 100 deliveries a day in 5 days. So, we're seeing the sites themselves ramp way, way faster. And a big part of that is that it's getting simpler and simpler for us to build this infrastructure. So, just for you to kind of get a sense for what the infrastructure looks like, you know, we integrate right into the side of hospitals, primary care facilities, stores, restaurants, you basically can just think of it like a magical portal.
[00:49:08] Zipline is just building a magical portal in the wall. And now any healthcare worker or Walmart employee or Chipotle employee can just pass whatever they want through this magical portal and it's teleported directly to the home that it needs to go to. Um, we do this uh for a lot of different kinds of buildings. We also have what we call zipping points. You can see there on the bottom right. Zipping points can be
[00:49:26] installed in 1 hour. So, if you're a business and you want to access a zipline, we show up, boop, drop a zipping point. And now that business is enabled with zipline, it can deliver in this way. Just to give you a quick sense for what this infrastructure looks like. You know, we're now building these sites. We're launching about one a week. Um, by Q1 of next year, we expect to accelerate to about one a day. But this
[00:49:43] infrastructure is relatively quick to build um and enables up to 500 deliveries a day from a site like this. quickly. You know, one of the one of the cool things is that customers are all just using the Zipline app to order these things. And when they are ordering for the first time, you type in your address. We actually show you a satellite image of your home. And you tell us exactly where you want us to
[00:50:01] deliver. You can pick the dinner plate level area, whether it's in your backyard, side of your house, your parking lot, apartment buildings. We can even deliver onto roofs. You can scroll and see all the different brands that are available on the app. Order whatever you want. Um, and the average time of delivery right now is 18 minutes. A lot of deliveries happen in under 10 minutes. In fact, you know, we just launched Chipotle 2 weeks ago. The first delivery happened in under 7 minutes
[00:50:24] from like the customer ordering to it being delivered to their house. So, I I think it's going to redefine what is what is possible in terms of instant delivery in people's minds. And just to hint at something cool that we can't announce just yet, it, you know, we'll be adding a lot of people's favorite brands to the service very soon over the coming weeks. And you know, I joke before, just last thought, I had joked before about like this sense of like science fiction to entitlement
[00:50:53] in about 7 days. We do enjoy that science that period of sci-fi amazement. And you know, just to, you know, the similar version of like Jesus Christ delivering blood from the sky. It's pretty cute to see families and and and kids actually, you know, kids are telling their parents like what do they want to do for the weekend? They want to go and watch the zipline, you know, the zipline aircraft. And so we we do take these pictures just when we're at the sites of people like hanging out on the hoods of their cars. Uh or, you know, a
[00:51:19] mom with her kids sitting in her lap or the kids like looking through the you know, the window of the car just watching the system operate. And that brings me to my last kind of provocative point, which is that, you know, our parents had this incredibly inspiring mission, right? The United States was in the this geopolitical race to get to the moon, the space race, and it united all the best engineers. It inspired us. It made
[00:51:44] us dream with optimism about what the future could represent. And we did something impossible. We put men on the moon in 9 years. Obviously, the US is in a similar technological race today. It's a race for AI and robotics. But what does winning that race for the US really mean? So I want to leave you all with just a slightly provocative answer to that question. But first, who knows what city this is? Shout it out if you know.
[00:52:08] Yes. Okay, good. There are nerds in the audience. This is Wakanda. So Wakanda is a fictional radically advanced uh African city hiding in plain sight from one of my favorite movies, Black Panther. And the provocative idea is that we can go build this in the real world. Like I think that winning the AI and robotics race for America isn't just us building like exquisite AI technology to serve, you know, the richest people on the coast of this country. It's about
[00:52:37] extending the reach and influence of the United States. It's using AI and robotics infrastructure to lift the rest of the world up with us. Like these countries want to be leaprogging into the future. They want access to the best technology that America has to offer. And if we go and extend, we want these countries building on US AI and robotics infrastructure, not that of our geopolitical adversaries. And if we can
[00:53:02] do that, we can make the world a safer place, a wealthier place. We could potentially eliminate maternal mortality and childhood mortality in a lot of these countries. And in doing so, we can secure US technological and manufacturing leadership for the decade to come. So, thank you all. No text So, we want to do a little bit of time travel with you today. We want to go back to your origin story and then we
[00:53:35] want to play it out into the Wakanda future that you're imagining. Cool. So, taking it back to where you began, why start in Rwanda? Yeah. You know, it's funny. Everybody makes this assumption that like the most advanced technology in the world is going to start in the United States and then trickle its way out maybe to you know and it'll start in the rich cities right and then maybe it'll trickle trickle its way to rural areas in the US and then after years it might trickle
[00:53:58] its way out to like developing countries. I think that paradigm is largely wrong and it has a lot to do with you know which countries at least over the last decade it had a lot to do with which countries are hungry and entrepreneurial and willing to move super fast to build new kinds of regulatory paradigms. Um, and Rwanda is this, you know, it's kind of like the Singapore of Africa. It moves incredibly fast. It's very entrepreneurial. It's kind of a startup country. And it it was
[00:54:23] perfect for us to work with them. Um, they wanted to take this risk on us when we were 20 people. We were totally naive nerds who had no idea what we were talking about. In fact, I remember this conversation with the Minister of Health in 2016 where I was saying, "Oh, you know, we're going to use autonomous aircraft to deliver all the different medical products in your health system." And she looked at me and was like, "Keller, shut up. Just do blood." And
[00:54:47] she explained to me, you know, that 50% of blood transfusions are going to moms with postpartum hemorrhaging. 30% are going toward kids with severe anemia due to malaria. And she was like, just show us that you can do that. And so it's interesting like that was the best advice the company ever received. And um, you know, we've really just been kind of like following their lead for the last eight years as we've developed the technology from there.
[00:55:06] The reduction in maternal mortality when you showed that stat, I got goosebumps. It's just incredible. Yeah. And by the way, you know, I think a lot of times people in the US think like, oh, you know, those poor Africans like, uh, it gets unbelievable that they have those kinds of, you know, healthcare problems. We have this exact same problems in the US. You know, people in the audience may not know, but, um, the US has the highest rate of maternal mortality of any developed country. Um, and you know,
[00:55:31] rates for African-American women are three times that, you know, the average. I mean, we have a lot of challenges with rural rural healthcare in this country. So I I think honestly um people probably think that these countries are more different than they are. Almost every health system is dealing with the same kinds of challenges. So you come to the United States, you launch it here. Tell me about the first period of launching in the US. Yeah, we um we originally launched kind
[00:55:58] of the the first version of the technology, the fixedwing technology that you could see in 2020. Um honestly, it's it's shocking. I mean, we were delivering like birthday cakes and rotisserie chickens via just those like paper parachutes. It's pretty unfancy, but customers loved it. Um, they and and this is kind of we were rapidly iterating um to build something that we thought would be like the future version of logistics, which is ultimately platform 2. It's the video I showed
[00:56:22] today. And we we only launched platform 2 on January 15th. And then we really only started scaling it in April or May. So, this is all happening in real time. A lot of those videos we showed were just from yesterday or the day before. What has it felt like? Um, you know, it's stressful. Hardware is incredibly hard. Um, you know, we have been scaling a hardware product while like the tariff craziness has been
[00:56:46] going on through, you know, March and April and May. Um, you know, building a global supply chain. I mean, you know, Zipline just put into perspective like we designed the flight computer, all of the avionics on the aircraft. We design the aircraft itself, all the mechanical um components, the primary structure and then from a software perspective, it's flight control algorithms, multi vehicle deconliction, communications
[00:57:10] architecture. We design, we we build unmanned traffic management system that we provide to the regulators like the FAA and then we also design that app that you saw which is our customer ordering platform. So um you know all of that and then you also have to figure out supply chain and maintenance and manufacturing and operations logistics like all of it has to work for the end customer to just have this magical experience of like teleportation and um
[00:57:34] you know I yeah there's no part of it that doesn't feel desperate and stressful as you're kind of scaling a system at that level of of exponential growth as you're launching in the US. Do you have a sense, Keller? Are you going to beat the unit cost to deliver with delivery drivers today? And by how much? Can you give us a sense on if I want Chipotle, why would I go to the Zipline ordering system or use Chipotle's app and have Zipline kind of fulfill for me?
[00:58:03] What's the cost difference going to be percentage-wise, do you think, over traditional food delivery? Yeah. So I mean interestingly people may not realize you know instant delivery has grown incredibly fast like especially through co but even before there are now 5 12 billion instant deliveries being done every year just in the US and that's not like Amazon or UPS that's just the instant deliveries and we're using a 4,000 lb gas combustion
[00:58:26] vehicle driven by a human to deliver something to your home that weighs on average 4 to 5 lb. So, you know, if aliens were to land on the planet and look at the way we're solving that problem, they would conclude there's no intelligent life on Earth. Like, this is a bizarre solution. Um, I think, you know, the reality is we have this new demand and and the demand is vast. People want things delivered quickly and
[00:58:49] they want like to have more time with their family rather than spending time in traffic or like in a store. Um, but we're using technology that's 100 years old to solve that problem. So, I think all you have to realize is that instead of using a 4,000lb gas combustion vehicle driven by a human, you should use a 50 lb vehicle that is autonomous and electric. And that's kind of just reasoning from like physics first principles. Like you
[00:59:13] don't have to be, you know, a genius. As soon as you've realized that, I think you know something really fundamental about the future that few people actually understand. And so we think it's it's very inevitable that um that and by the way that if you were to just extend the customer ordering behavior that we see with um with our customers today there would be 50 billion instant deliveries happening in the US. Wow. So this is kind of a
[00:59:38] based on the order provocative idea. Yeah. Basically if you make the deliveries less expensive 10 times as fast and just a way better experience people order a lot more. Not that surprising. So, I think the the reality is actually, you know, these kinds of systems will yes, definitely be less expensive than using a 4,000lb gas combustion vehicle. Um, but I think more importantly, the reason customers are using them so much is it's just a way better experience when you can have something delivered in 7 minutes or 8
[01:00:03] minutes or 12 minutes. Um, you have to much cheaper. Um, I think it will be naturally, but I don't believe it needs to be. I mean, it's the reason that like Whimo right now is more expensive and people prefer Whimo to to What's the weight limit and then how much of the market does that address? Yeah. I mean, right now we the the system is designed to deliver up to 8 lb and 8 lb gets you like 95% of all packages delivered by Amazon. I think it's like 95% of food delivery orders.
[01:00:29] So, suffice it to say, you're not going to deliver flat screen TVs in this way anytime soon. But the vast majority of stuff actually fits and can be delivered like this. So while this is all happening, while zipline is exploding, I think many Americans came to believe that the the era of drone delivery had somehow passed, that this wasn't a near future that they were going to experience. Why do you think that misconception happened? And what should
[01:00:52] all of the people in this audience go out and say to the people who might ask them what they've seen here? Yeah. Well, it definitely didn't help that the CEO of one of the largest companies in the in the world went on 60 Minutes in 2013 and promised everybody drone delivery in the next like, you know, one or two years, right? Maybe some of you guys saw that interview. Who was it? I don't even know what that interview was. Jeff from Amazon. Yeah. He was like 2013. He's like, "Oh, well, you know,
[01:01:15] we'll be doing Yeah. So, he I mean they promised, you know, they announced Amazon Prime and they said by 2015, you know, it'll be serving, you know, everybody in the US." And um I think that that you know people probably believed it right like and and then I think people were really disappointed when it didn't happen and maybe you know similar trend that you see hap happened with autonomous vehicles you know autonomous cars which
[01:01:37] is that like 2015 so many companies were raising you know billions of dollars and it was like right around the corner and people could see it working for the first time. But obviously it's a whole decade later today that we actually now see Whimo and robo taxi scaling commercially. The reality is with these kinds of technologies, I think you always have like the bubble and and the max hype and then you have the trough of disillusionment and then you have the 8 to n years of the actual hard work of