[00:16:06] created through nuclear reactions in stars billions of years ago. And humans understand that is that cosmic or what? As Carl Sean used to say, we are made of star stuff. We can move closer to home and image planets in our own solar system like Neptune here with its moons and rings. And those bright spots on Neptune are a storm which has been developing. And so you can monitor planetary storms and come to a better understanding of climate on Earth.
[00:16:40] We can move to other stars and search for planets orbiting them. So-called exoplanets. It turns out that nearly every star you see in the sky has a collection of planets around it. They're just really hard to see here. To see it, the web telescope had to place a disc in front of the star where that little five-pointed thing is in the circle, revealing the exoplanet orbiting it. And the hope is that through studies of the
[00:17:11] atmospheres of these exoplanets, we will find places where life could have arisen and maybe even did arise independently of life on Earth. And we don't have such evidence yet. But once we do have compelling evidence for life elsewhere, it'll be one of the most monumental discoveries in all of humanity. Well, you could say this is all very interesting, intellectually titillating, but so what? Why spend national funds on
[00:17:46] pure research of this type, not applied research that will lead in the short term to new gizmos, pacemakers, and iPhones and things like that? Why should we pursue this kind of research with taxpayer money? It's a legitimate question. Okay, so let me give you three reasons. The first is that of all known animals, humans are the only ones with the curiosity to ask complex questions, abstract questions, questions about
[00:18:16] their very origins. And we have the intellectual capability to pursue answers to those questions and the hands with the posible thumb with which to build machines like telescopes and particle colliders to help us answer those questions. If some subset of humanity were to not do this, we would be selling ourselves short as homo sapiens. Now, you don't need many of us, but it's good to have some. The second
[00:18:46] point is that astronomy is a gateway science. It's like the bug that bites kids and gets them interested in STEM fields. Most won't go on to become astrophysicists. Okay? Again, that's an okay thing. But they'll be more motivated to pursue fields of science and technology which will lead them to careers that are more immediately beneficial to society. computer science, engineering, medical physics, applied physics, those sorts of things. I see
[00:19:17] this all the time as a board member of the Shabbo Space and Science Center and also at Lick Observatory in the hills east of Silicon Valley where I conduct much of my research and public outreach. Kids love this stuff. Just like I and some of my friends were inspired in our youth by the American lunar landings. What an amazing accomplishment that was. We are on the moon. Wouldn't it be great to contribute to this grand enterprise
[00:19:49] and go boldly where no one has gone before? It's just an an incredibly inspiring uh moment and the Hubble and web and things like that are providing that moment for kids now. And then there are the technological spin-offs and unanticipated applications like quantum physics for the latter. Over a century ago, there were two outstanding questions in physics. What is the nature of light? And why are atoms stable? And you could say, well,
[00:20:26] as long as we know how to make light bulbs and as long as the floor doesn't collapse underneath me, who cares what light really is and why atoms are stable? You don't need to know, do you? Well, physicists over a century ago like Einstein, Schroinger, Heisenberg, Boore, Plunk, they cared about the workings of nature simply to satisfy their curiosity. No practical applications immediately in sight. Fast forward a century, you couldn't imagine today's world without
[00:20:58] an understanding of quantum physics. One example, lasers, a 13.5 billion dollar industry in the US with innumerable applications. Computer chips. Moore's law with three and even two nanometers per pixel. Now we have the equivalent of half a billion transistors on the head of a pin. That is amazing. That's quantum mechanics, folks. quantum quantum electronics. And then specifically from something like the web, lots of uh spin-offs, infrared
[00:21:29] detectors, similar ones are now used in medical imaging, night vision systems, and environmental monitoring. Cryogenetic engineering, you had to cool down the telescope. This led to advances in cooling systems now used in quantum computing, uh superconducting electronics, medical imaging, and so on. And as just one other example in many precision optics and materials segmented goldcoated mirrors and deployment mechanisms for the web led to innovations in robotics metrology and u
[00:22:02] high precision manufacturing. So those are just some of the spin-offs from the web itself. So I hope I've convinced you that spending some small amount of money on research of this type is exciting, is important, extends our grand vision as pioneers of the universe exploring our origins. And to give you just a sense of scale, over a 10 bill o over 10 years, the $10 billion cost of the web was one $6 hamburger per US taxpayer per year. That's what you contributed to the web.
[00:22:40] Thank you very much. I hope that you feel it was worth it, okay, to give up this one hamburger. Now, listen. Um, if you're interested in this sort of stuff, I give much longer talks with more details to corporate groups and others. Just contact me if you're interested. Thank you so so much for being here. Thanks, Alex. All right. Good to see you. Grab a seat. No text So, Alex, you are one of the world's greatest scientists and science communicators. So, David and I have prepared a set of rapid fire questions
[00:23:21] for you. I'll give rapid fire answers based on what our audience might have seen in headlines or might be understanding and want to know more about about not just James Webb but generally. Yes. I just gave one example of web limited time. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah. So, one of the places I want to start is searching for life on exoplanets. I think many people might understand that James Webb is doing that but might not fully understand how and
[00:23:47] what the implications might be. So as a way to understand this if we were looking at Earth from 100 light years away. Yeah. What would we see and how would we understand that as life? Yeah. Yeah. So what you want to find is some sort of chemical disequilibrium. Now that sounds fancy but what do I mean? In the case of the atmosphere of Earth, the simultaneous presence of oxygen and methane is very curious
[00:24:12] because methane oxidizes. That is, it reacts with oxygen very quickly. And so, you wouldn't expect any methane in the atmosphere unless there were some more or less continuous source of that methane. And although methane can be produced through chemical means having nothing to do with biology, it's also produced by biology. uh you know Carl Sean called it boine flatulence right uh so it's the decay of uh of biological organisms and so if we were to find that
[00:24:42] in another exoplanet atmosphere that wouldn't be absolutely definitive but it would be sort of a a flash point wow we better study that planet more because that's one that could have life yeah and we're seeing that yeah we're beginning to see that we've not seen methane and oxygen in any other uh planetary atmosphere yet but Um uh certainly there there are interesting signs of of elements that are reported
[00:25:08] by the web through these kinds of atmospheric studies. One of the other big discoveries with the web was these early massive galaxies. Yeah. I mentioned the early massive galaxies. Yeah. And there was a paper that followed. Yeah. You and I talked about this and there's been a lot of social media and nerdy YouTube videos. Yeah. about this paper and the theory that these early massive galaxies may actually disprove
[00:25:33] the big bang theory by saying these early massive galaxies are responsible or account for what we see as what's called the cosmic microwave background radiation which may mean that the what we assumed was coming from the early universe from the big bang may actually come from these galaxies and it's like do we have it all wrong we may and these papers are getting a lot of attention is the bang big bang theory disproven
[00:25:55] moving now with this discovery. The the big bang theory is in on is on very solid ground. There are many details we don't understand. The basic tenets, however, of the theory are just three-fold. The universe long ago was hot. It was dense and it was expanding. Nothing in those studies uh contradicts any of that. Uh as I mentioned, the early formation of galaxies is an interesting puzzle. It means that our understanding of how galaxies formed and evolved is still incomplete. But that's part of the fun
[00:26:27] of doing science. There's new things. You know, the cosmic microwave background radiation is the a the afterglow of the big bang. And it turns out it uh agrees to very high precision with a very single temperature. Meaning that the universe everywhere was the same temperature then expanded by the same amount and we see see the same temperature everywhere. There's no way you can do that with galaxies forming at
[00:26:52] a range of times and distances. They would each contribute light that would not give this so-called black body thermal spectrum. And there are many other details of the microwave background, the spots and stuff that are not at all addressed. So, a lot of these theories, you know, as scientists, we can dream up things and we just kind of put them out there to be explored more. But of course, the media likes to highlight the the really snazzy sounding
[00:27:18] things. And so sometimes, often the very speculative ideas get way too much attention. We're exploring them, but they're probably wrong. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, I don't need to throw out what I learned in high school. No, no. The Big Bang is on very solid ground. What about the theories coming out? We've been talking a little bit about this um on whether or not we are inside a black hole. Oh yeah. Are we inside a black hole? Yeah. So a black hole is a region of space where matter is compressed so much
[00:27:49] that nothing not even light can escape. And it turns out that in a sense our universe, if you look at the total amount of matter, dark matter and dark energy and all that stuff, visible matter in the volume out to which we can see, okay, that has uh about the right value to make the universe as a whole, wh it resembling a black hole, h that would mean that our universe is finite. We don't actually know whether it's finite or infinite. We actually only know that it's much bigger than
[00:28:24] what we can see. And mathematically there is some correspondence between the equations governing a black hole and those governing the universe. But there are some important differences like a black hole is a physical structure within our four space-time dimensions like right here. Whereas applying that to the whole universe is um it's a qualitatively different idea. But there are some mathematical correspondences that um that that are useful and
[00:28:53] interesting. I personally doubt that we are uh a a giant black hole. Some people say it's actually a black hole that was given birth from another universe. And for that there's really no evidence. Um, but Alex, one of the the many things that blows my mind about astrophysics and cosmology, the further out we look, the faster objects are moving away from us to a point that at a certain distance from us, the objects in whatever
[00:29:25] direction we look are moving away from us at nearly the speed of light or even faster. And so that becomes the observational limit of our ability to see or ultimately experience our universe. That there's this boundary that without crossing the speed of light, we will never get to and we will never see what's beyond it. Right? That's our observable universe. That feels pretty up. Well, you know, space can become really
[00:29:53] big. Okay. And in fact, you know, good student, you asked me the right question. You need some help? Ah, thank you very much, my assistant. Okay, so I've got these galaxies here. They don't expand, by the way. They're held together by by gravity in in the case of real galaxies, but then the hose between them expands. So, let's expand it here. Try not to aim at your eyes or David's eyes. That would be very bad lawsuits and stuff. But anyway, from the
[00:30:17] perspective of our galaxy here, the the more distant ones, you know, with each bit of space expanding can and do go away faster than the speed of light. And Einstein wouldn't wrap me on the knuckles for that. Einstein simply said that no material object or no information can travel through a pre-existing space faster than light. But space itself expanding, especially if it expands exponentially, which we think it did early on in its existence,
[00:30:44] it grows faster than the speed of light, and you get a truly humongous universe, maybe even an infinite universe. And yeah, most of it we can't see, but there are other independent volumes out there where we could be having this conversation right now or or you could not like what I said and punch me in the face, but then I would respond by p punching you in the face. In other words, all these possibilities could occur in these parallel observable universes beyond the observable part
[00:31:14] that we can see. And it's freaky, but this is the kind of stuff we get to think about. And I'll ask you the question I asked you on the phone the other day, which is there's mathematics that shows that the geometry maybe inverses inside of a black hole or some some some things are reversed or inverse. What's the right term? Right. Therefore, is the expanding universe that we see our version of being inside
[00:31:35] of a black hole which is effectively an accelerating contraction towards the singularity. Yeah. So um what David is referring to is that if you look at the mathematics of a black hole from our perspective, what we call space and time outside reverse their meaning. Um time becomes space and space becomes time in terms of directionality. So for example, if you're in a black hole, there's no way you can avoid the so-called singularity where you get squished into nothing because it's in your future no matter
[00:32:05] what you do. Now applying that as you wanted to do to the whole universe. I don't think that the correspondence is such that the expansion that we see is the reversal effect of um this um going toward the singularity because uh well because of some technical issues. Again if you look at the mathematics there are some interesting correspondences but they shouldn't be taken too too literally in most cases. Okay. Yeah. So the question I would be wondering if I were in the audience listening to we have a expanding
[00:32:40] universe. It is uh potentially infinite. My question would be so where is everybody? Yeah. So yeah where are they all the fairmy paradox? Is the great filter in front of us is the question. Yeah. I actually think the great filter is in front of us. It's a an idea where uh civilizations such as ours rarely get past this point uh where they can achieve interstellar travel easily and stuff. Something happens either
[00:33:07] intentionally or unintentionally or through neglect they get destroyed. All right. And uh I I I actually think that first life at our level is very rare. I'm not saying we're alone, okay? But very rare. And the second punch of the one-two punch is that there's almost always a great filter. And so rarely do civilizations reach interstellar capability to the extent where they colonize a galaxy. If it had happened
[00:33:35] even once in our Milky Way, we would easily see the aliens here. Not just the sketchy UFO evidence, okay, that's been presented. Doesn't reach the bar of credibility and science, by the way. Uh, but we would be the aliens more likely, right? Because they would already have colonized Earth and we would have been the aliens. So, I think they're makes sense to maybe not travel and just transmit information back and forth and maybe we just don't know how to see or understand the information that's being
[00:34:04] sent our way and we don't know how to transmit it. Yeah, certainly communication techniques could be different. So, I I'm not saying we know at all. And, you know, there could even be this dark forest where they're intentionally, you know, uh not transmitting toward us cuz they don't want us to know about them. They're sort of maybe even pursuing us and stuff going to kill us before we kill them. Um these are all possibilities you know but um I think
[00:34:28] the most likely in my view is that the what I said and also the vastness of space means that we wouldn't be able to communicate or or hear from um aliens that were much farther away than you know 100 or a thousand lighty years and the galaxy is 100,000 light years in uh space in in extent. So unless they colonize the galaxy, if they're very rare, we won't see them because the the signals are too faint and they haven't had a chance to to get here. You know, I