[00:00:00] No text Good morning. Where are my besties? They are not here. What does that mean? Science corner. I have a guest host because my besties abandoned me for Science Corner. Let's see who it is. Leo, you're one of the fastest growing channels on YouTube right now. Former box journalist that left to go independent on YouTube. She went from 0 to 5 million subscribers in just 3 years. I don't know many other YouTube creators who are going to go to those lengths.
[00:00:34] There's a lot of very lucrative fear-mongering going on. That's why I want to bring a more optimistic point of view into the conversation to help people imagine what could go right. That's why I went independent. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Cleo Abram. Hi. Welcome. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Thanks for having me. Grab a seat. You were here all day yesterday. Yeah. How was it? Having a great time. This is my first All-In Summit. I'm so excited to be here. Welcome. So, Cleo, you have 6 million
[00:01:12] No text subscribers on your YouTube channel. We have under a million. Thank you for having us on your show. Welcome. How did you do it? What happened? So, you you were at Vox before. I was. Yeah. And you were an independent director. I mean, you were doing other projects. Tell us how you set up this channel on YouTube, why you did it, and how did it get so big so fast? Yeah. Huge if True seems to me to be a bit of a microcosm of this big shift that we're in with media generally right
[00:01:44] now. I was at a media company um and making what we call explainer journalism. So taking complicated issues and making them understandable both to me and to millions of people. And I went independent to start this show because there was something that I felt like I was missing when I looked out into my media diet. I really wanted to find a show that was optimistic that helped me see where were the people that are
[00:02:09] working on hard problems, making them better every day in a way that I could understand and I could participate in. So, I left the media company where I was, started this show, and had the opportunity because of what YouTube offers to reach a global audience very quickly and find out, oh my god, I'm not alone. Oh my god, there are millions of people that also want this kind of show. And YouTube made that bet that if you allow anyone to create their best
[00:02:35] creative work, the most the widest audience will watch. And so YouTube has become in the last 18 months, I think, the most watched streaming platform on televisions. So, we're in the middle of this big moment of change in media and how media gets made. Um, and I I don't think most people know that it's really happening. They know that YouTube shows can get big, but they don't really understand this shift that we're in. And by the way, the shift is also very
[00:03:00] exciting for streamers because they're looking at this and they're saying, you know, a Netflix of the world, I used to make a Netflix show as well, can look at this incredible new wealth of creativity and IP and say, "Oh my god, who do we want to work with to give, you know, upfront capital to make something that's even bigger?" something you and I have talked about because if you're on Netflix today and
[00:03:23] we're going to talk with Neil and Ari today, you can if you're an independent director, you go to Netflix, they're like, "Okay, we'll pay for your production cost plus 10%." And it's like quite different than what it used to be like when you made friends, you could make the show and then you could eventually make like a VC. Like you could make hundreds of millions of dollars if it worked out and it became a a massive show, but you're basically capped at Netflix. But YouTube's quite
[00:03:46] different. So there seems to be a financial or economic incentive both creative freedom but also this economic incentive to go to YouTube. But then how does financing happen? Like where can creators drive the engine to fund and create new content? Well, most YouTubers have adfunded businesses. And so what that requires is you go out on your own as we did with huge if true. We went independent. We started this show. the show grows and
[00:04:10] then you are able to get sponsors who in turn fund better and better work and it continues to scale. Um, the traditional model of paying upfront for a show that then the streamer owns offers something very different and I think we're in an interesting flexible moment of change right now where a a Netflix might say, "Wow, we see a really exciting show on YouTube. We want to allow that creator to make something that is a version of that IP that is bigger and we'll invest
[00:04:41] in that upfront. And so what I think we're seeing is for the same creator and the same kind of IP, you can have a really wonderful relationship between the kind of show that you can make when you can reach global audiences immediately and grow and see how far you can take it with an advertising model. And then at the same time, you might be able to take that gem of an idea and say, "What would I do if I had upfront capital?" So, I
[00:05:05] think there's a really interesting way in which these things all work together. And some of the headlines make it seem as as though this is, you know, an antagonistic moment in media. I think it's really great for everybody. I think it's a really, really exciting moment. I'm also the optimist, so of course I'm going to say that. Yeah. But I'm I'm actually curious to hear what Neil thinks at YouTube. I know
[00:05:23] you know him because it opens up a window I think right now for YouTube to suck up some of the best content creators in the world from the more traditional platforms, broadcast and streaming. Yeah, it goes both ways. Yeah. But so just talking about your show, um your show is so great because it it really meets what I always say is missing in media today, which is we've got this deep sort of technimism. Everyone thinks that technology always
[00:05:48] has a catch. There's always something bad emerging. Robots are going to kill us all. AI is going to wipe out human civilization. Nuclear power is going to melt down and destroy neighborhoods. Every point of technology has some negative angle, but then that becomes the cycle. You watch all the shows on Netflix, you watch all the movies, Aaron Brochovich, like the the ones that work, the ones that seem to resonate, which means that's what people truly kind of
[00:06:12] want are the ones that talk about things gone wrong. But your show is quite different. And you talk about what if things go right. Why do you think that is resonating and are we changing or is it are you kind of capturing a a small audience and the bigger one still sort of technopesistic? Well, the best thing by far about making this show is realizing that there are millions of people out there that also want that same kind of work. I mean, you
[00:06:36] see it with Science Corner in so many ways those are very similar in tone. And I think from from my perspective when I when I started this show, I really was looking for a part of my media diet that I wasn't getting anywhere else. And that's what makes making something yourself on YouTube so special. You're creating something asking are there millions of people out there like me? And and the answer turns out to be yes. With respect to optimistic science and
[00:07:01] tech content specifically, the reason why I make it in the first place, we spend months on these episodes. We travel all around the world. We invest a huge amount in the animations and the technical explainers so that you can understand without any background at all quantum computing and the impacts supersonic planes and how we're trying to bring them back. Uh I was in a zeroravity plane the other day trying to explain the cutting edge of of gravity
[00:07:25] research and theoretical physics. These are things that millions of people can understand if you explain them in the right kinds of ways. And that's what we try and do every day. And the reason why we do that is because we genuinely believe that when people see those better futures, they'll help build them. That's what I want to do. I'm not an engineer. I'm not a scientist. I look out at the world and I think, "Wow, there are so many people working on hard problems. I want to know how I can participate." And so my hope is that's
[00:07:50] what we're doing every day. We used to have that after World War II. I always tell people like uh the Disneyland opened up in 1955. There's a YouTube video called the Disney History Institute. It's the channel and it shows like what Tomorrowland was like when you when Disney opened in 1955 and it was all about like we're building this better world with all of these crazy technologies. Rockets to the moon, plastic so we could all have cheap furniture. Like there were all these
[00:08:14] there was a crazy device that they had in the kitchen called the microwave where you could cook in 30 seconds so you wouldn't have to like sit around and cook for hours. But we've lost that. Um, and I really hope that your content resonates with more people and that we get there again. So, Cleo's going to join me this morning for two really fun panels that we're going to have. Um, and we're going to kick it off now. We used to look up in the sky and wonder
[00:08:35] No text at our place in the stars. How thrilling must it be to truly discover something or understand something that no human on earth has ever seen or understood? He was a member of both the supernova cosmology project and the high supernova search team to discover that the universe is accelerating. A leader in all of these undertakings. That's one of the big questions of cosmology. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Alex Filipeno.
[00:09:20] Wow. Wow. This is so fantastic to see you all here. Good morning, David. Uh, thank you for inviting me to Science Corner. It's such a pleasure. Most of you probably don't know that in fact David was a student of mine at UC Berkeley 28 years ago and became an astrophysics major. In fact, you know, so I feel like I had some influence on him. I'll take some credit. Uh, you know, uh, as Joe Sai said yesterday, teachers want their students to become more successful, to
[00:10:03] become better than they are. Uh, and I always knew that David would be very successful in his career, but I didn't know that he'd be quite this successful. So, good good job, David. You know, I'd also like to uh yeah, I'd also like to officially acknowledge California's 175th birthday today, California admission day. Uh so, yep, we were told that yesterday and I looked it up and it's true. So, you know, California is be is beginning its uh
[00:10:41] 176th orbit around the sun. May may may it be revolutionary, so to speak. Right. Get it? Get it? Okay. Uh, okay. Well, it's my pleasure to be uh speaking today about the James Web Space Telescope as just one example of an amazing mission where humans are pursuing science and exploring the universe. It's an amazing device and uh it's already brought us so many interesting results. Now, it was launched on Christmas Day 2021 aboard an
[00:11:18] Aryan 5 rocket and it's a wonderful example of how international collaboration and cooperation in this case between the US, Europe, and Canada, can lead to incredible achievements in very complex projects. There are many comparisons with NASA and issa's Hubble Space Telescope, which has been serving us well for over three decades. The primary one is that the web has a much bigger mirror. And a mirror can be thought of as a gigantic eyeball, a collecting area that brings together
[00:11:54] faint starlight from distant parts of the universe. And so the bigger the collecting area, the fainter the object you can see. And web has six times the collecting area of Hubble. So it's a more powerful telescope. Fundamentally, the web was designed to explore our origins. Where did we come from? How are we evolving? What's going to happen far far in the future? How do galaxies like the Milky Way galaxy form? And how do they evolve with time? Now,
[00:12:28] we know now that many galaxies merge together like the group that you're seeing here in a beautiful web image. By the way, to the lower right of the word time there, there's a star with a a bunch of spikes. Ignore the spikes. They're not beautiful. They're ugly, okay? They're just a consequence of the interaction of light with the telescope. So, ignore the spikes. But here are a bunch of merging galaxies. Now, the
[00:12:52] first image NASA released publicly a little over three years ago was of a tiny part of the sky. Imagine a grain of sand held at arms length. Imagine how small that looks. Yet in that tiny patch of the sky, there are thousands of galaxies. These fuzzy things you see out there, you can count them if you're if you're interested. Over the whole sky, we can see about a trillion galaxies, a million million galaxies. And some of them we see forming just a
[00:13:25] few hundred million years after the explosive birth of the universe, the so-called big bang. And one of the interesting aspects of this image is that galaxies started forming and evolving earlier than expected. And so we're working on that interesting puzzle right now. How do stars like our sun form? Well, they form in stellar nurseries. Giant clouds of gas and dust. Fine little particles that collect up as a result of
[00:13:58] gravity. and the central densest regions collapse and and form these stars. But they're hidden from view when looked at with most telescopes because we can't peer through the dust. The web looking at infrared wavelengths, heat wavelengths is able to peer inside and see newly formed stars and stars that are still forming. We can also look at discs of gas and dust around newly forming stars. This is essentially the
[00:14:30] mechanism by which our solar system formed about 4 and a half billion years ago. Debris around the newly formed sun that collected gradually to form bigger and bigger objects, planets. All right. How about the death of stars? This is a snapshot, a preview of the sun's future in about 7 billion years when the outer atmosphere will start getting gently ejected off, leaving a hot dying star in the middle that makes the gases glow. The star, the fainter of
[00:15:06] the two that you see there, looks faint because there's dust, fine little particles that have formed in the ejected gases. These particles consist of elements heavier than hydrogen and helium that were cooked up in the nuclear furnace of the star during its life. These dust particles can later form new stars, planets, and ultimately life. And to get most of the heavy elements, you need the explosions, the
[00:15:35] cataclysmic disruptions of certain varieties of stars at the end of their lives. our sun won't explode in this titanic way, but some do. And here's one that we started studying about 40 years ago. Analysis of the web data shows the kinds of elements of which we are made. The calcium in our bones, the phosphorus in our DNA, the oxygen that we breathe, the carbon in our cells, the iron in our red blood cells. These elements were
[00:16:06] created through nuclear reactions in stars billions of years ago. And humans understand that is that cosmic or what? As Carl Sean used to say, we are made of star stuff. We can move closer to home and image planets in our own solar system like Neptune here with its moons and rings. And those bright spots on Neptune are a storm which has been developing. And so you can monitor planetary storms and come to a better understanding of climate on Earth.
[00:16:40] We can move to other stars and search for planets orbiting them. So-called exoplanets. It turns out that nearly every star you see in the sky has a collection of planets around it. They're just really hard to see here. To see it, the web telescope had to place a disc in front of the star where that little five-pointed thing is in the circle, revealing the exoplanet orbiting it. And the hope is that through studies of the
[00:17:11] atmospheres of these exoplanets, we will find places where life could have arisen and maybe even did arise independently of life on Earth. And we don't have such evidence yet. But once we do have compelling evidence for life elsewhere, it'll be one of the most monumental discoveries in all of humanity. Well, you could say this is all very interesting, intellectually titillating, but so what? Why spend national funds on
[00:17:46] pure research of this type, not applied research that will lead in the short term to new gizmos, pacemakers, and iPhones and things like that? Why should we pursue this kind of research with taxpayer money? It's a legitimate question. Okay, so let me give you three reasons. The first is that of all known animals, humans are the only ones with the curiosity to ask complex questions, abstract questions, questions about
[00:18:16] their very origins. And we have the intellectual capability to pursue answers to those questions and the hands with the posible thumb with which to build machines like telescopes and particle colliders to help us answer those questions. If some subset of humanity were to not do this, we would be selling ourselves short as homo sapiens. Now, you don't need many of us, but it's good to have some. The second
[00:18:46] point is that astronomy is a gateway science. It's like the bug that bites kids and gets them interested in STEM fields. Most won't go on to become astrophysicists. Okay? Again, that's an okay thing. But they'll be more motivated to pursue fields of science and technology which will lead them to careers that are more immediately beneficial to society. computer science, engineering, medical physics, applied physics, those sorts of things. I see