[01:11:41] saying, "Hey, these jobs are going to be 10 times more efficient or we're going to replace your driver and we're going to replace your cashier." I see that as an early stage investor in founder university. I see it every day. Company, hold on, let me finish, please, gentlemen. People are pitching me on startups and they're getting funded for these startups to specifically replace roles and they're saying, "We want to make the perfect sales development rep.
[01:12:06] We want to make the perfect customer support agent and enterprise customers are agreeing with them and buying these products and services specifically to stop hiring and increasing their headcount. I see it on the front lines. It is definitely happening. The only difference is timelines and can we create enough jobs? This is why I think we've done a bad job of explaining it. We need to explain for every one of
[01:12:32] those robo taxies that gets out there and that job is gone. How do we get that person another job? Because they're not going to get the job as a cashier at Starbucks anymore cuz that's going AI too. Here's a very practical idea. Yesterday I was at the Senate to just talk about this. What is the idea? I think we have to start looking very honestly at stopping the federal underwriting of student loans. Why? Because it would
[01:12:58] allow the market to move very quickly to your reality, Jason. Because we would go beyond just funding somebody to become a master electrician. I suspect that we would pay people. Yes, I bet if you went to Google, they would not only subsidize you, they would probably pay you a salary to get educated to do that job because once you graduated and you could work up the ranks and become a master electrician, there is so much work that
[01:13:25] for example Google needs, Amazon needs, Microsoft needs. And so if you eliminated the federal underwriting, we don't have it for car insurance. We don't have it for home mortgages. We allow the free market to tell us this home is more risky than that home because it's near a fire area. This person is a poorer driver than that other person. We should allow the free market to say go to this kind of a job
[01:13:47] and you'll get paid so much, but go to this other kind of a degree. It will cost you a lot of money. And let people decide with more clarity. But that one thing would allow us to reinforce what the economic upside of AI is in a very practical way for a lot of people and it would solve this student debt crisis that we're in. Sax, should there be a license fee or a tax? This has been floated by people. I'm not saying this is my position, but should there be a tax on having a robo taxi or a humanoid robot that is
[01:14:18] then used to retrain actual humans? Look, I I think first we just need to start with some accurate facts here. And we need to explain what's what's happening. And part of that is debunking some myths around this. Now, I remember about a month ago there was a whole wave of very scary headlines, including in a publication I really like, the New York Post. Nick, maybe you can put this on the screen, claiming that AI was wreaking havoc on US jobs. So, this was
[01:14:43] a headline from the New York Post last month based on the October report from Challenger Gray, which basically tabulates announced layoffs in the economy. And we had a spike in October and about 20% of those were attributed to AI. It wasn't even the majority. It was actually a relatively small number. It wasn't even the number one reason. But based on this, you got a wave of scare headlines that AI was wreaking havoc on US jobs. Well, lo and
[01:15:08] behold, the November challenger grade report has come out and it makes clear that October was an anomalous spike. The number fell by 53% and only about 6,000 of the layoffs that were announced in November in the entire country were attributable to AI. This is only layoffs, by the way. It doesn't include job creations. Okay, so only 6,000. And if you look at the year to date in the Challenger Gray report, AI has only accounted for 4.7% of total layoffs. And that number is
[01:15:41] self-reported by CEOs. So my guess is it's inflated because if you're a CEO, you'd rather blame AI for your company's non-performance rather than yourself. So 4.7% is probably the high number. So what we're actually seeing in the data is a very small number of actual layoffs related to AI and that was corroborated by a new study by Yale Budget Lab which looked at the first 33 months after the release of Chat GPT and it said there is no discernable disruption in the labor market. Okay. So that's I think a really
[01:16:13] important fact is regardless of what you want to claim will happen in the future job loss has not happened yet. not in any meaningful numbers and in fact AI has been responsible for about half of GDP growth this year. So GDP growth is about 4%. That number would be at 2% if it weren't for AI. So within that is a lot of job creation. You see that again with construction workers. So it's just not the case that AI is creating job loss in any meaningful way right now.
[01:16:45] And people do this Mott and Bailey thing where they're like, well AI is creating tons of disruption. It's wreaking havoc. And then you point these facts out and say, "No, no, I mean in the future it's going to." But then they revert to, "Well, no, it must be happening now, right? The disruption is so profound." So look, we can all argue about what's going to happen in the future, but right now it's not. And if you're going to talk about the future, the time frames matter a lot because obviously we've
[01:17:11] always had technological change in the economy and it does change people's job. But if those changes are happening over 20 or 30 years, that's very different than the next 5 years. And I really don't think you know how fast the disruption is going to be and how much time people are going to have to react and for new jobs to be created. I'll give you an example. Back in the 90s, I remember when they said that brick and mortar was going completely out of business. That was part of the reason why we had the first do bubble in 99 was
[01:17:35] that, hey, everything's going to the internet. It's going to go pets.com instead of Toys R Us and so forth and so on. And people thought that bricks and mortar was going to be out of business within 5 years. Well, it's literally 30 years later and bricks and mortar is still a thing. I mean, it's not blockbuster. No, look, it hasn't been a great business. I mean, like, Amazon has been super successful and you know, you did
[01:17:54] not want to own Toys R Us, but bricks and mortar is still around. Walmart's still around. The change is still ongoing. And I think that's what's most likely going to happen here is this this technology is going to create a productivity boom. I don't think the main thing it's going to do is cause job loss. It's going to have lots of different impact on our lives and we're going to have time to adapt. I don't think this is a two to three year time frame thing. This will be the debate of our
[01:18:20] lifetimes. I predict but look I mean if I'm wrong we'll find out in the next 5 years. But what I just really resist is this Mott and Bailey thing where people are like this is happening right now and then they no no this is going to happen in the future. Be clear. I think you're wrong. But I think the summary of this point is the following which is the facts today don't bear out the bear case. But the perception is that people are afraid. And married with
[01:18:45] that is that we as an industry and I don't actually blame it on you because you had to clean up all kinds of craziness that the Biden era left. So I think you've done a great job. But our industry needs better spokesman. I mean, we talked about this after our tech dinner. There needs to be a way for a handful of people who can really represent the future in an articulate way that people believe. And I think we do need to do that. We can't have the CEOs
[01:19:09] of these companies seem either sketchy on the one hand or too focused on material consumption on the other. It's just bad. It's a bad look. I agree with you. But think about the two biggest narratives that created this fear and resentment towards AI. I would say it's the AGI narrative and the time frames now are people are pushing them back. Right. That was there's one there's one called a famous project called AI 2027
[01:19:35] where they were predicting AGI in 2027 and now they've pushed their time frames back into the 2030s. Look, you know, once your time frames are over 10 years, we know from the tech industry then you have no idea. You have no idea. But it was that it was AGI and job loss and and I would say current current profound disruption and job loss. And both those narratives I think have been debunked in the last several months. Final chart, Nick, you can pull it up here. This is just Fred. Unemployment rate 16 to 24 year olds. This is the one
[01:20:05] I think you should watch. 9% in January, now 10 a.5%. I think this chart's going right up to 14%. Just my prediction and I think it's because of AI. Tucker, I'll give you the final thoughts on this and then we're going to start everybody's favorite game, Tucker in 20 where we do a lightning round with Tucker Carlson. Tucker in 20 coming up. Any final thoughts on this? Well, I was just thinking about the consequence of I mean, having lived
[01:20:28] through Y2K and Obama, Y2K we thought was going to be a disaster. Obama people thought was going to be great. Both, you know, were the opposite of what we imagined. I don't know that it's possible to predict the effects of this. But I guess my one worry which I would just I I think that people all people especially men need to feel useful and the thing that's offended me most about the about the AI conversation is not the AGI stuff
[01:20:53] which always seemed a little bit fantastical to me. It's the it's UBI. It's the idea you could just like pay people to be content or something. And having grown up both around inherited money and welfare, you know, both are, you know, two sides of the same coin. People need to feel like they're contributing and that their lives have meaning. And I don't know. I just hope I hope people are thinking about that a lot. Yeah, I agree with you.
[01:21:17] By the way, that that whole UBI narrative, I think Sam was like towning that a couple years ago. He funded it. He funded a study. It made this whole thing so much worse because again, it was playing into this idea that everyone's going to be put out of work and that's a good thing and you'll just get welfare from the government. And who would want that? You know, it's not if that's not the side you want. Now, I mean I mean where I disagree with my friends on the right is
[01:21:38] I just don't think that's what's gonna happen. I mean, I could be wrong, but I just don't think that's what's happening. It hasn't happened yet. I don't think that's what's going to happen. But look, I agree with them about the undesirability of that world very much. All right, Tucker and 20, your thoughts on You can take up to 30 seconds, but Tucker and 20 sounds better. Tucker in 20. What do you think of Venezuela
[01:22:02] uh these boats and then seizing the oil tanker? Why are we doing this? Why are we so active in Venezuela, Tucker? No freaking idea. But I do know that if it becomes a real war, people are going to be shocked and it's the last thing the country needs. There's I mean the the number one requirement of war is that you explain to your population why you're doing it. Even if you're lying about it. Even if it's like, "Oh, they have weapons of mass destruction. We'll find them once
[01:22:26] we invade." Everyone mocks that, but at least it was like a real rationale that allowed the country to unite behind the invasion. That groundwork has not been laid. The drug stuff, everyone's against drugs. They're not coming from Venezuela primarily, as we know. So, they're coming from Mexico. I'm not advocating for an invasion of Mexico. There may be a good reason to have a war with Venezuela, but I think it's it would be now would be the time to roll it out if in fact we are going to have one. My sense is we're probably not. This is all
[01:22:50] an effort to get Maduro to leave. I don't think he's leaving. So, I hope we can live with that. But I I just don't think right now is the time for a ground war in South America. You've been very excited about the potential of Qatar being a deeper ally of the United States and you're buying a place there. Uh why are you so why are you soar to mix? I'm not I'm not I mean of course anyone who who travels to the Gulf can tell you there's something amazing happening
[01:23:19] there. And it's not just about money. It's about openness, but I'm an American. I'm not going anywhere. I have one passport. I'm buying a house in guitar. To make the simple point, I've been attacked for being a tool of guitar paid by guitar. I've never taken a dollar from Qar or anyone else. I have no investors and no debt. So, I'm not into taking money from people, but I wanted to turn it around and be a net investor in Qar in order to take control
[01:23:43] of Qatari propaganda in order to say, "No, they haven't bought me. I've bought them." and I'm texting them my talking points and they're repeating them and that's what I plan to say the second I close on my house. Uh Candace Owen, Charlie Kirk's assassination, conspiracy theory. What's your take? I think it's important for I mean look, in the end it's the job of federal law enforcement to find out who did it and then explain it to the public in a way
[01:24:08] that makes sense and can be proven. And I really hope that will happen soon. So they're they're part like in any any I mean I was a crime reporter. I wrote a book on this. There's in any aftermath of any crime, there are anomalies, weird coincidences, things you can't fully explain. I mean, the closer you look at anything, the more complex it reveals itself to be. So, that's certainly true here. But because of the nature of this murder of our friend, um, I think it's
[01:24:35] all the more important to make sure the public understands who did this and and why. And I would say the FBI doesn't have a lot of credibility. It's not the fault of Cash Patel and Dan Banchino. They inherited an agency with basically no credibility that's has a documented history of manufacturing crime. So like it's not enough to say the FBI says it. You have to explain how. And I'm not even doubting the the core case they're making. But if they are telling me that this was a lone gunman, that no one else
[01:25:06] was implicated in this crime, I think it's fair to ask like how did you reach that conclusion? And did you look at this that and the other thing? And I don't think we should be intimidated out of asking those questions. Those are not unpatriotic questions. Those are questions that I think uh you know express our uh reverence for Charlie Kirk. This is a way to honor him and any American who's murdered. So
[01:25:29] sorry. By the way, just on this if anybody has not watched Tucker's documentary Yep. about the Butler, Pennsylvania shooter, I can't remember his name. We're memorizing that anyway. So, please don't ask any questions. Yeah. What happened with that? Jeez. I thought your documentary was pretty kick-ass. Worth. Well, thank you. And it just I mean it look it was really good. We we asked obvious questions, couldn't get straightforward answers. I do think the more you did more than this. I have to give
[01:25:54] you credit because you were able to scrub internet searches. You went back to the way back machine. There was a level of detail because my interpretation was it seemed like you guys were afraid of just getting sh on from everybody. And so you went to the point of making sure that this stuff was irrefutable fact. And you had a level of detail in there, which I hadn't seen in an investigative research piece in a long time. I do encourage people to
[01:26:20] watch it. I thought it was very good. Well, the good news about being universally hated is it keeps your standards higher um because you can't afford, you know, to make too many mistakes. No, but we can't have too many, you know, high-profile murders or attempted murders that don't have firm, believable resolutions. The the the social fabric can't handle that because then people become totally postmodern in their thinking and don't believe anything. So, that's incumbent on
[01:26:45] federal authorities to reassure us. Tucker, if you are running the Republican campaign going into the midterms, what do you do the same? What do you do more of and what do you do less of? Well, I would, you know, I' I'd focus on domestic economic issues to the exclusion of everything else. I would and um I would I think that's that's the main concern. It's always the main concern. Now, I'm entering into very benal territory because I'm repeating every uh you know obvious observation in
[01:27:15] the past 100 years in American politics. But people do care about that and they are concerned. AI is part of that probably not in its reality but in its expectation and it's the fears that people have about what's coming. Um, and so I would I would try to address those issues at least by explaining them. I do think like well I'm in the explaining business so I'm biased but 80% of the problem this is true in marriage and