[00:00:00] No text All right, back with us in place of David Freeberg who's busy this week is the one, the only on his fourth appearance here on the All-In podcast, Mr. Tucker Paulson. How are you, Tucker? Thanks for having me. Hey, Tucker. Good to see you. David, David, how do you have time for every time I every time I turn on my phone, there's like David Sachs on something incredibly complex. Like, are you sleeping? usually people attacking me for something, but it's not just like, oh, your views
[00:00:31] are this or that geopolitical conflict. It's like the details of something very complicated. And I'm just like, wow, man. That's a lot. That's a lot to digest. Yeah. There's not a very high bar in Washington, as you know. You're a giant among pygmies, but still, it's a lot of work. In the land of the blind, the oneeyed man is king. King. Exactly. Exactly. Are you still enjoying it? Yeah, it's been a lot of fun. Well, you know, President Trump's a lot of fun to work for. He's the most fun. I mean, the best, right? He got a big shout out yesterday. It was
[00:01:03] really awesome, actually. David did. Yeah. Huge shout out. That's right. We were at the White House Christmas party. I think they do like 25 of these. Yeah. Literally. Literally, cuz they got so many thousands of people, but they can only fit a couple hundred people in the White House and they're doing like two a day. And the president comes down and gives a speech and every speech is different. You know, it's like a Dave Chappelle comedy routine where he never does the
[00:01:24] same set and he does it with so much enthusiasm and gusto. You would think that you were the only, you know, holiday party crowd that he ever addressed. He never expresses any irritation at at doing that. He loves it. It's like amazing. It's unbelievable. But in any event, he gave me a shout out during the speech and then he called me up there to like, hey, can you say a couple words about AI? And I'm like, well, this isn't exactly Chris's party conversation. So, I just kind of talked
[00:01:54] about how great he was and um how much fun it was to work for him. And then he gave Chamatha a shout out as well. No way. And he just starts talking about the All-In Pod. Like, we're in the audience and he just starts having a conversation with us about the All-In Pod and how's it doing? And you know, the funniest part was he says to me, "Oh," and then Nat was behind him. So, he goes, "Hey, Nat." And he says, "I
[00:02:16] hope everything's going well. How's your relationship?" He looks at me and I'm like this and then Nat's behind her. Me going like this. Oh, it's so awesome. I'm going this weekend cuz I miss him. You're going to see him this weekend? You guys are on good terms. Tuck with Trump. Oh, yeah. The best. I mean, the best. I mean, of course, people have told him, many people that he's not allowed to talk to me. So, that just makes him like me much more cuz like all
[00:02:41] he hears is, "Oh, he's" People be like, "He's the worst human being who's ever lived." And all Trump hears is who's ever lived, you know, and he's just that he's just he's you can't control him that way. Period. So, no, I get along with him literally in 25 years better than I ever have. That's good, too. It's hilarious. Yeah. The last part of that story is so after he calls up me and Jimoth, actually, he
[00:03:07] calls me up to speak and then calls David up to speak. He went on a little bit of a riff saying, you know, I don't like the term artificial intelligence because why would you want to call it artificial? It sounds bad. Why don't they call it something else? Superior intelligence intelligence organic. And then and then he calls up Chimath. He's like, Chimath, what do you think? And Chimath says, well, I think I think AI is too late to change, but maybe it could be American intelligence.
[00:03:30] And then he says, yeah, but you know, we want this to be used by the whole world. Sell it to the whole world. Anyway, we start workshopping uh this branding exercise. in front of the entire Christmas party. How about we call it Trump super intelligence? Okay, it's Trump intelligence. No, but you know what? Calling AI American intelligence is actually the smartest and best one could do around AI. We got a lot to talk about, Tucker, you've been on a run, huh? You've been on I mean, not in my world. I mean, I'm
[00:04:00] off social media mostly, so it's like nothing's actually really happening in my world. You don't open X at all. It's all about me, man. And I'm not going to I don't like to read about myself, so I don't look at it. No. All right. For topic number one, Paramount versus Netflix. They're in a bidding war over the future of Warner No text Brothers and all that amazing IP. The assets obviously many of us know Warner
[00:04:23] Brothers is led by Zazlo, David Zazlo, but he owns currently HBO, DC, and the Warner Brothers collections of films. Also, they have that great studio a lot. On the cable side, they own CNN, TNT, Discovery, and uh they just saddled that company up with $30 billion of debt. And they had a little bit of a competition for who would buy it. Netflix and Paramount Sky Dance, run by the Ellison family. Netflix offered $83 billion to purchase just the streaming assets, which would
[00:04:58] put the number one and the number three player together. and WBD publicly accepted Netflix offer last Friday. This has created a bit of a kurluffle. Paramount now is coming in with a hostile offer, 108 billion in cash for the entire company. That includes the cable assets. That would be interesting because then David Ellison, son of Larry Ellison, would own not just CBS, which is being run CBS News by your
[00:05:27] favorite Tucker Carlson, uh, Bari Weiss. She would also, I guess, own and run CNN in this instance potentially. We'll get to that. Uh the $ 108 billion offer includes two vehicles, 41 billion in equity financing by the Ellison family and then a bunch of other folks coming including and we'll get to this uh some Middle East uh sovereign wealth funds. Poly market interestingly has Paramount as the favorite at 51% in Netflix has
[00:05:59] dropped to 36% even though they say they have a done deal and 14% chance of no deal. I think that might be the free money the 14% chance of no deal. What's your take on this, Tucker? And just broadly speaking, consolidation in media having pulled the rip cord and left traditional media and now yeah, the understanding is you're doing better than ever. You control your destiny and I think you're making probably as much or more money now than you did when you were working for the men.
[00:06:31] Yeah, I don't I actually haven't checked, but I'm not much of a money guy, but I'm I'm fine and can pay my non-existent mortgage. I'm against monopoly power in general because I think it stifles creativity. I'm not that worried about this because these, you know, these things never move in exactly the direction you imagine. I've been in media my entire life and none of the big changes I anticipated. In fact,
[00:06:56] almost all of them I made fun of. I just don't think that we're really threatened by, you know, a conglomerate of CNN and Netflix and all. So it's like, okay, you can assemble huge companies. Can you make people consume and believe the product? You know, buying CBS news is like buying RCA records or something. It like just doesn't have any effect. And only people who are not paying attention are pretty cut off think you're going to win hearts and minds by being buying CBS News or CNN. These are these brands are
[00:07:32] husks. In fact, all they are is brands at this point. And I just am not at all convinced that this will have a material effect on anyone's attitudes at all. You know, if you started to mess with what YouTube is allowed to air or the ownership of X, you know, then I think you could could really change the country and the conversations that we're allowed to have. But I don't see any of this as especially meaningful on the
[00:07:57] society. I mean, is the is the product going to get, you know, I don't know, more subversive than than it already is? I mean, is this like Netflix going to be worse for American society? Probably not. You know, I think this is a business story, not a cultural story. Chimath, your thoughts. I'll give you two. The first is that whenever you see deals, it's important to look at the amount of money that that is at risk. And that is the best tell about whether
[00:08:23] this is important for the future or not. Hundred billion dollar deals are typically about things in the past. What is the future? Billion dollar deals. So for example, when you look at when Facebook bought Instagram for a billion dollars, that turned out to be a huge bet about the future, it was right. When Google bought YouTube for a billion six, that was a huge bet on the future. They were right. When Microsoft invested a billion dollars in OpenAI, that was a huge bet on the future. It was right.
[00:08:54] But when you look at assets that trade at hundred billion dollar plus valuations, they're so undergurtded by debt. All of that debt is only ever bought by looking at the past. Meaning how much money have they made and then it's a best guess about how much money could they make in the future. So these multiund billion assets to Tucker's point, they don't really matter that much. I don't think it's super anti-competitive. These are financial transactions. The reality in media, so
[00:09:20] specifically about this deal. So that's a general statement about deal quantum and you can just judge the importance based on that. People should be spending much more time looking at billion dollar transactions and hundred billion dollar transactions. That's my takeaway there. But at the very specific thing about this deal, the reality is that the future is unscripted, uncontrolled, userenerated content. You see it on
[00:09:43] YouTube. It is already the 800 lb gorilla in the space. And then separately, it's now becoming about shorter form video. And you see that with things like Instagram reels and Tik Tok. None of that landscape will change based on this deal. If anything, if those trends accelerate, the value of historic IP is going to erode even faster. Meaning, this generation of kids will have no idea or care about the Marvel Cinematic Universe, about Star Wars, and that may upset those of us who are nostalgically
[00:10:14] tied to it. So, I don't know. I would let the deal happen. I don't think it's particularly that important. Saxs, obviously you don't speak for the administration on these issues, but I'm curious your thoughts on this. Yeah, just my personal view on this is that we're going to get meaningful consolidation in the industry either way because either Netflix and Warers are going to merge or Paramount and Warers
[00:10:37] are going to merge. So either way, you're going to get consolidation. But that being said, if Netflix is allowed to buy Warers, the antitrust concerns are a lot more serious because Netflix really is the 800 lb gorilla in Hollywood right now. It's the number one streamer by far. It's got the biggest market cap. And they're the party who the rest of Hollywood is freaked out about right now. And so you saw that the Hollywood unions like the WGA
[00:11:03] sag. They oppose the deal because they're fearing job cuts, lower wages, worsen conditions due to reduced demand for talent. And then the the content creators and distributors are worried about this too because Netflix is known for making tougher deals I think than the traditional studios. I've got a friend who's a showrunner in Hollywood, and he's done projects with both Netflix and with the studios, traditional studios, and he says the big difference is Netflix will pay you pretty well, but you don't get
[00:11:33] any equity in your show. Like whatever you get is sort of agreed to at the beginning and that's it. So, you're not really an entrepreneur when you do a show for them. But when you then work for a studio, you actually get a back end. Now there's all sorts of, you know, Hollywood accounting associated with that, but he kind of misses the days that are going away where he got to be a little bit of an entrepreneur and have real upside in his shows. And if Netflix now is allowed to acquire Warner
[00:11:59] Brothers and that's just another nail in that whole coffin. And so I think it is a big change and if the antitrust regulators look at this, I do think that Paramount has a better chance. The other big factor is just that Paramount's offering more. They up the bid. It's 108 billion versus around 80 or was like $30 a share versus 27. And they're also buying the whole company whereas Netflix just wants Warner's studio assets and streaming assets like HBO as opposed to the cable assets which
[00:12:32] are considered a little bit of a co. So, I think if you're a shareholder in Warers, you probably want to sell the whole thing. You don't want to just be stuck with the bad assets. So, yeah, I'm a little surprised actually that the Warner board went with Netflix when they had Paramount as an option, assuming this Paramount offer was on the table, because it seems like a better deal, and it's probably a little bit more likely
[00:12:57] to get through the regulators. So, I guess I'm a little bit surprised they chose Netflix, but I guess Netflix is the more bonafideed party, right? It's $400 billion market cap and maybe they thought that they're more able to execute this transaction. Yeah, I have only three points on this. Number one, it really depends on how you frame competitors in this space. Here's your paid streaming platforms, Netflix,
[00:13:21] Disney, and HBO. Disney's done an amazing job after starting a decade after Netflix with streaming of really getting a lot of subscribers and consolidating one in three here obviously puts Disney way behind. But if you start looking at Tik Tok, Instagram, YouTube, these properties have the majority of the audience. They dwarf the audience of these paid services. And young people are not interested in movies anymore. They want obviously Tik
[00:13:53] Toks and YouTube. If you look at the revenue, it's a ask you a question about that chart before you move on. does how do you compare or do you adjust for time watched or minutes because how do you I didn't in this but yeah that would a big difference between watching a Tik Tok and watching you know a movie on Netflix in terms of attention span disagreeing with you about the look there's no question the cultural
[00:14:16] significance has moved away from Hollywood towards user generated content on these online platforms but I'm just curious you adjusted for that yeah no I didn't adjust for that you could you could slice it a bunch of different ways but at the end of the day you I put the competitive set as a little bit broader here um which is including the free you know UGC services since that's what young people are doing and then if you look at revenue
[00:14:41] you you know it's a slightly different picture here these paid services are doing extremely well and they are juggernauts in terms of making money and profitability now and UGC obviously is much larger especially on a global basis the more important Third thing here is how we do antitrust in the country. Trump wants to be involved in this. He said he's going to be very involved in it, you know, which as an
[00:15:05] 80-year-old, he's involved in everything. Why not be involved in this? He shouldn't be. Put that aside. I think we need to have a way to prevet these and then just let the highest bidder win. I don't know how this concept is getting convoluted, but the Ellison's are compromising Trump a bit here. I think that's why Trump gave a lot of shine to Ted Sarandos. I don't know if you saw his quotes about that sachs, but he was praising what a genius Ted
[00:15:29] Sarandos is and how amazing Netflix is. The Ellison's coming out and, you know, basically saying that they've got this in and, you know, they're going to basically have the inside track here, I think is one of the issues I propose we have a prevetting of these large deals because we want M&A to be vibrant in this country. We want more M&A after the wrath of Lena Khan. So I think you should be able to prevet chimoth. You should be able to go to the government
[00:15:57] and say, "Hey, we're considering selling this asset, whatever it happens to be, you know, YouTube back in the day. Is there anybody who's not able to participate in this auction and then just have the FTC prevet some of these and then highest bidder seems like what's best interest in the best interest of shareholders." So kind of that's untenable. And the reason why Yeah, explain. You have multiple facets of antitrust that can come up from any
[00:16:21] number of organizations in the United States. And that's just but one part of the complexities you have to navigate because if you do business in any other country, all of these other countries are in a position to opine. Oh, sure. If you think about doing a deal where you're in China and that other asset is in China, it can slow down for a very, very, very long time and never happen for reasons that have nothing to do with the industrial logic of the merger. So I
[00:16:45] don't think you can prevet these things because it's not scalable and I think the government would get frustrated because you'd have a thousand people outside the door. They'd have no time to do anything else. They have to govern. The different thing that we have to figure out whether is allowed is how these deals are getting done. The only thing that I would observe is the two biggest transactions that have happened thus far this year that I've taken note of happened as total raw asset sales to