[00:28:48] taken over all political discourse which is identity politics, tribalism. And I'm just opposed to that. I period and always will be. And I I just think that we're governed by universal principles or we're governed by the mafia. Those are our choices. And so you you know our principles have to apply to every human being or certainly every American citizen. Period. or they're not principles. Um they're just a justification uh for tyranny. So
[00:29:12] Fuentes, you know, has a different kind of identity politics, but there are all kinds of different identity politics. We we lived under it during the Biden years. We've lived under it most of my life actually in one form or another. And so if anything, Fuentes reminds us that we have to come up with some kind of principle that every American can ascribe to something called national identity. That is not a dirty phrase.
[00:29:35] that's actually necessary to keep the country from disintegrating, comma, which it is. So like what does every American, all 350 million have in common with every other? And that's the conversation we need to have. And in its absence, then we get a lot of people popping up and being like, well, all white people over here and all black people or Jewish people or whatever. That's not going to work. That will end in violence. Everyone knows that. And so
[00:29:58] now is probably a pretty good time to figure out what we all have in common. I didn't platform him. I in first of all platform is not a verb and anyone who says it is a verb is probably opposed to my core interests I would say and bad language. Yeah. I interviewed him like interview everybody you know and my general belief is you should let people say what they think and others can decide whether they mean it or not whether they're being false or sincere and and what they think
[00:30:25] of what the person is saying. But that's that's my job. I'm not ashamed of it despite a lot of efforts to make me ashamed of it. I do disagree with Fuentes on the question of universal principles. I think it's im well first of all it's against my religion to hate any group and I told him that. But I didn't do a lot of other posturing designed to make me seem like you know the good person. Peers unfortunately fell into that trap as an older man you know well isn't it you are bad and it's
[00:30:50] like okay I don't even disagree with some of that but you don't elevate yourself. you look like an outofouch buffoon. And that's exactly the trap that was awaiting Piers Morgan. And if you watch that interview and if you watch the reaction to it, that did not diminish Nick Fuentes in any way. It enhanced Nick Fuentes. What diminishes Nick Fuentes is asking him straightforward questions, particularly about women. Not have you had sex with
[00:31:14] anybody, but like why are you so mad at women? And that, you know, letting people talk a lot reveals who they are. That's just true. Sorry. If you were to give the top two or three reasons why he's resonating with it seems like young men and this America this burgeoning American first movement which I guess it would be good for you to define right now as best you can recognizing you're not the leader of it but you have said I
[00:31:41] think uh you this uh concept is you know uh resonates with you so maybe why talk why is Fentes resonating and what is America first versus MAGA. Like explain that just in in reverse order. I mean, I would argue that the the premise of MAGA is America first, but I wouldn't say that America first is a movement. I would say it's the only legitimate reason to run a government. And it's very simple. The the government of your democratic republic ought to act in broad terms on behalf of its own
[00:32:13] citizens. I mean, it's it's not more complicated than that. There's nothing sinister about it. In fact, anything other than that is sinister because it's illegitimate. For what other reason would you run a a Democratic Republic and treasonous? There there isn't one actually. So of course this has to be an America. You could think of a new name for it if that name makes you uncomfortable. But the idea has to be the reason we have a
[00:32:35] government or else we have to get rid of the government because there's no other justification for having a government. Okay. So a b why is he popular? Because he says that. But I would say more broadly because he's defiant. There's a kind of up yours, buddy. I can't say that. Okay, watch this. I will. He's hilarious. He seems steadfast and strong. I I don't think he is. He's not even married. So, like, if you're afraid of girls, I think you're a wuss. That's my personal view.
[00:33:06] But there is a But in his defiance, people see something really appealing. Why wouldn't they? You know, you know, these are kids who've grown up in a world of hectoring and telling them they're bad because of how they were born. And Nick Fuentes is just raising the middle finger to the people saying that and saying up yours. And who wouldn't love that? Of course people love that. Second piece is of the America first is America only. And I guess that means
[00:33:30] I don't know what that means. That's it. No, of course it's Look, we we work in concert with others by definition. It's a globalized economy. You know, maybe it shouldn't be, but it is. But America only that argument to the extent it's not really an argument. That's like a counter slogan designed to undercut the main argument isn't doesn't really mean. No one is arguing that. It's just saying look the US government ought to act on behalf of its own citizens. To which
[00:33:55] people who don't believe that who are embarrassed to explain why they don't believe that because there's no justification for not believing that are like well you're you're America only. No, the government should do that. Every part of the government should have that foremost in mind. How does this help the people who pay for this in whose name it's done? Like again, even calling it a movement drives me bonkers because compared to what? Some sort of creepy secretive oligarchy, which we've had
[00:34:21] most of my life. Like that's just bad. There's no way to defend that. And we can argue within the framework of America first how to put America first. That's a totally legitimate argument. And there are all kinds of different thoughts about that. But what the motive should be, the goal should be, there's no debate. It has to be for American citizens primarily. If they're, you know, ancillary beneficiaries, that's great. Not against that at all. Let's
[00:34:45] help everyone if we can. But the point is to help the people who own the country, the shareholders of the United States who are American citizens. There's no other point, is there? Chamat, let me bring you in on this from the angle of the America first movement, America only movement as a reaction to the first year of the Trump administration feeling to many people in the Republican party as benefiting maybe
[00:35:10] tech oligarchs, billionaires, uh, international issues more than the working man. you have started to tweet a little bit and become vocal about, hey, maybe year two of the Trump administration, we got to get refocused on some of these things. Unpack that for us in the audience. Well, can I can I offer my feedback on Fuentes first? Of course. Yes. Go with Fuentes if you like. There's a couple points I want to make. The first is that he is, as Tucker said,
[00:35:38] charismatic. I think he's funny and I think that he can animate around a lot of touchy subjects and say things that have shock value. And I think in that what he is is actually like a modern shock jock. He's like a younger Howard Stern. He's the Howard Stern of this era. the way that Howard Stern was in that era unlistenable to so many people because he would be kind of okay for 80% of the time and then go totally off the rails and you think, man, this guy is some combination of mean, nuts, crazy,
[00:36:08] and then you throw out all these other adjectives. So that's point number one. Point number two is it is true that the longer you allow him to speak actually the more you understand what he thinks and as a result the quality of the product will dictate the scale of adoption and now this is where I think the media yet again has been very sloppy and doesn't do their work which is and Nick you can throw this up there's been a lot of research on what has been
[00:36:37] happening in the last few months and the bottom line takeaway in the last few months is that there is coordinated effort of individual largely unverified accounts in social media. They typically emanate from India, Pakistan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Nigeria. And there is a coordinated amplification process that is happening around this content. And in this chart that you're seeing, it's just a comparison of Nick in the first 30 minutes to what people like Elon get in
[00:37:11] the first 30 minutes of him posting. Now, why that's so important is you start to see this huge disparity where even though you have the most viral person and account in the world, i.e. Elon Musk on X. What you see is him completely crushing and dominating the verality in the beginning of his content creation versus anybody else's. And then there's a bunch of other charts. Nick, you can retweet a link to this. It
[00:37:38] starts to show a pattern where there's a coordinated effort to amplify. I think that's why we're having the Nick Fuentes moment at this point in time. The New York Times all of a sudden sees this information, probably doesn't bother to do the diligence, has a bunch of positive mentions, starts to pump him up as a leader of some kind of nefarious, crazy, scary rebellion. Well, no, they want to mainstream him and they want to try to mainstream him. So, what you see is the New York Times trying to mainstream this guy and make
[00:38:12] him credible so as to paint the right as a bunch of evil racist ideologues. I think the producers at Piers Morgan didn't understand this was happening. And so when you put him on a 20 minute soundbite shot, it feeds in to exactly what makes him popular. The ability to land these small sound bites. This is why I think Tucker was much better because again in multi-hour programming, you can't hide. You see the full facet
[00:38:38] of what the person is and you start to understand that this is a very savvy young media personality. Now, when you strip away all of this amplification, the product has to work for it to scale and grow. There is no way that you're going to manifest average normal men and women spending their time to take these views credibly unless it's good and right. There will be a moment in time where curiosity will cause you to say,
[00:39:04] why is everybody talking about this? We are firmly in that moment. But I think that there is a large portion of what he says which I don't know whether he believes or not because I haven't spent that much time but is meant to shock. It's meant to catalyze and animate people but I don't think it's sustainable because the views themselves are repugnant. So I think and this is why the New York Times wants to elevate him. Can you put it up there?
[00:39:31] So there I am. I look amazing guy in that picture. I look like a slackjawed yokal and he looks like rebel with a cause. Yeah, it's Jed Clampid versus uh James Dean. The the other thing I'll say is that Sax and I are in a couple of these group chats with some folks and some of the chatter there is that who is paying for and who is activating all of these bots and fake accounts in all of these developing world countries and why did
[00:40:00] they pick him? Some of that conspiracy basically points to a handful of nations who would love to ferment that kind of dissent and that kind of yeah we don't have chaos and uprising. I mean this has been clear for a long time. So I think it's very important from here on out that if people are to listen to him I think the longer form content exposes what he really thinks so that you can judge it for yourself. But I would not discount the fact that this
[00:40:26] moment is happening is not entirely organic. There is a deep inorganic effort to put this on the front page of the news. And so it's up to traditional media to decide whether they're going to basically lift this guy up as some kind of newfound hero or call it out for what it is, which is lead in the articles with this data, which is widely available and easy to get. Well, he literally explained this when he was on Tucker's podcast. He was originally in college part of this
[00:40:56] Prageru kind of movement and he said he was in a Facebook group which was the Prager army and I've talked about this before we've joked about it but there are groups like the one you mentioned uh that you're in this group I heard about it a couple hundred right-wing folks of note take it easy Jason my invite didn't get got lost apparently to it but uh yeah add me to that group please but what happens in these groups
[00:41:20] some of them are designed to make money some of them designed to make impact In fact, Andrew Tate had one where there was an affiliate scheme put up uh for it when Twitter started sharing revenue with accounts and you start looking at these like accounts that are anonymous but get to massive scale. King Co the Great You're talking about the clip forming. Yeah. Yeah. And and they're regurgitating stuff. They're doing it for the money obviously. They're making 10 20 grand a
[00:41:43] month. It becomes a full-time job to do that. But we've got the Russians, we've got the Chinese, everybody in between doing this kind of pumping. And then there is the actual army. So he Nick Fuentes has an army of young people who do this and they're on VPNs and they flood comments and what they do is they share a clip. And you can experience this in your own social media if you're of note because you'll have 10 posts get x number of replies and then all of a
[00:42:09] sudden the 11th gets 10 times that all at the same time directly to it not from your followers and that's when they get shared on these group chats. By the way, we should mention just tangentially because I want to get Tucker's take on this, but Australia just passed a law that under 16, you're now not allowed to use social media. Instagram, Facebook, Tik Tok, all banned until you turn 16. And in part, Jason, I think it's because these coordinated miss and
[00:42:33] disinformation or amplification campaigns are on all kinds of characters, not just Nick. They're proliferating because to your point, the economics creates an incentive if nothing else. Then there's obviously the state level sponsored chaos that it tries to sew. And one of the only highle bits that you can flip is to say under a certain age, we're just going to minimize how much of this content you get exposed to because we don't know what it is. Before we go there, can I just say the one thing on America first, America only, whatever these terms are.
[00:42:58] I I don't know what they are. America first, America only. Okay. I I don't know what they are. These are slogans, anti- slogans. Here's what I will say. I think it's very important, and I speak as an immigrant. I want to be American. I don't consider myself Canadian American. I don't consider myself Sri Lankan Canadian American. I consider myself American. I want to absorb and I want to reflect the values of this country. I want to know
[00:43:24] and be able to talk to you about the constitution of this country. I want to be able to celebrate the cultural heritage of this country. That's part of the compact that I think I'm making. And I do think that's an important thing that we have all lost where we have to run around in all of our traditional garb and it just loses that what makes countries great is a shared set of principles and values and we have to
[00:43:50] find a way of doing that. When I immigrated from Canada, what I will tell you is Canada took the opposite view. We used to call America a melting pot pjoratively, even in textbooks, and the textbooks would call Canada a toss salad. And we would celebrate that that form of multiculturalism was better. But when you fast forward the clock 20 years, all it did was create confusion. For example, if you go to school in Canada, there's like a bajillion
[00:44:17] holidays. Every culture gets their day off. Then all of a sudden, what happens? The kids don't get educated because you have to have every longtail country get recognized in some way, shape, or form. All of a sudden you lose this very standard form of basic organization. That's just but one example. You know the forms are in 50 languages. All that does is create chaos. It should have been in English and French because those are the two official languages of the country. All of that indirection trying
[00:44:42] to celebrate everybody's heritage confuses and slows that country down. And you can see it in the GDP. You can see it in the FDI foreign direct investment. You can see it. So the one thing that we have to agree is that there is an American culture and set of values and we should not lose it and we should ask the people that want to be here to embrace it. We all embraced it. Saxs embraced it. If you talk to Sax's parents, they've embraced it. If you
[00:45:06] talk to Freeberg, Freeberg's parents, we all came from different countries, but we are fundamentally American. Jake Cal, I'm I wasn't sure, but were you intimating that the party behind Nick Fuentes's meteoric success is the Russians? No, no, I was just saying that there's brigading going on. Which foreign actor do you think it is? I, you know, some of them just want to create chaos. I put Russia in that. Just