[00:57:25] you you prefer in entry- level jobs already happening in, you know, what I'll call chores like dishes and driving cars. Entrylevel jobs. Those are going away. And they're going to go away in the millions. And they're going to go away in the millions in the short to midterm. 2, three, four, five years. You're going to have people protesting in the streets over this issue. I don't know you agree with it. You say it every
[00:57:50] time. You interrupt me every time I say it. But I will be right on this one. You will be wrong because you'll see taxi drivers are going to be the first group to do it. And it's already happening in different places in the world as I mentioned in China and it's already starting to happen in places like San Francisco where they're burning the whimos and with them for a reason. The abundance argument is something we need to get on and we need to get on it quick or we need to get on some sort of
[00:58:12] promises about re-education and retraining. And you don't hear rich people and these rich companies talking about that half as much as they did. But you know what could be the great paradox, Tucker, is that the America First movement is acutely aware of this and shutting the border and deporting people, which I'm fine with deporting criminals. That actually might be the solution to the problem. As we deport
[00:58:36] people, as we don't let people in, unemployment might stay at a low enough level that we could manage giving the dishwasher jobs, the nanny jobs, the ones that maybe were being done by illegals, construction jobs, and we're just going to have to pay more for those. It's going to be $30, $40 an hour jobs. So, America First might actually be the solution to this displacement. May I just say one thing? I first of all, it makes me uncomfortable to hear you use the term re-education.
[00:59:04] Yeah. Sorry, I don't want that. But um you know the the the awesome power that AI gives governments and other concentrations of power over the population as a concern particularly in the United States where we have a bill of rights. And it seems to me it would be important and I never hear it raised to put in some guard rails to protect the average powerless person against surveillance or having his rights taken away in effect famously
[00:59:32] social credit. It's just too easy to extract compliance from people with technology this powerful. And of course, the very obvious next 10 years looks like this. There's a lot of disruption because of the elimination of jobs, particularly low-end jobs, but not only low-end jobs like lawyers and stuff, the the true revolutionaries in any society. and then the technology itself is used to keep the population under control
[01:00:02] through repression. Like I don't think that's a crazy scenario at all. You're aware that is the big what are we doing about that? Let me speak to this. So first of all I agree that that is the biggest risk of AI is let's call it the Orwellian concerns as opposed to like the James Cameron Terminator concerns. Just as an aside, I I agree actually with the Star Trek analogy that I think the right way to think about AI, it's like the ship's computer in Star Trek where you can tell it what to do. It understands language
[01:00:31] and it can speak back to you, but it doesn't have a mind of its own. But that doesn't mean that it couldn't be used by humans or governments in a oppressive way. And that's I think the biggest risk of it. And I think the track that we were on at the end of the Biden administration is that they were starting to require that DEI be programmed into AI. And that should be seen as an attempt to kind of infiltrate
[01:00:57] AI with ideology that then programs or brainwashes our kids and everyone who uses AI. And we were seeing that when Google rolled out their first product, you had the whole black George Washington thing and black Nazis and all that kind of stuff. history was being rewritten in real time by AI in order to serve a political agenda. And that didn't happen by accident. It's because the values, the ideology was being programmed in.
[01:01:21] Now, I think that that was the track we were on before President Trump got elected. I think it was a pretty scary track. And let me say one other thing is that that whole apparatus of so-called trust and safety from social networking which is basically a big excuse for censorship and shadow banning all of that was in the process of being ported over to these AI companies. And in fact they even use some of this same terminology about like safety is really
[01:01:46] this like catchall term for a lot of things in the social networking context when they talked about safety. The idea was that users be confronted with ideas they didn't like and therefore that was a threat to their well-being. So therefore we need a safety team to censor those opinions. Safe space. Yes. And I think I think in a similar way like that whole safety apparatus was in the process of being applied to AI like we can't have users be confronted
[01:02:10] with ideas that they don't like. Training data right Sax. I mean, if the training data is a set of woke ideologies and those are pervasive on the open web, then as Elon pointed out in like I think an early version of Grock, it was like if I misgender somebody that's not as that's worse than No, no, that's right. The early versions bomb going off. Yeah. No, the earlier versions of the model, you would ask it what is worse,
[01:02:34] global thermonuclear war or misgendering Caitlyn Jenner? And the model would say misgendering. So, and look, that ideology was coming from somewhere, right? War games. Yeah. So I think Tucker is right that there is a real risk that AI is used by future governments or the deep state basically to surveil us to censor us and even potentially to brainwash us cuz it is really good for that. It's not that I think the AI is
[01:03:00] going to develop a mind of its own. I don't think the technology is anywhere close to that. But I do think that it could be used by the government in a much more invasive and intrusive way in the manner that that the government was the deep state was already trying to get in bed with the social networks. That's right. This is I think Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. This this is the absolute biggest risk. Both of you guys nailed it on the head. In the future when you have these really
[01:03:23] powerful models, the reality is the incentive for governments to try to infiltrate the information cycle. They will not be able to hold themselves back. And then what comes with that is a lack of privacy, a total loss of privacy and then a push towards censorship. So as these AIs become more powerful, we have to marry it with a set of technologies that can preserve privacy and preserve access to monetary
[01:03:49] resources. If you look at the examples today that we have, there's nothing you can do today, nothing online that is not tracked. Now, we have sets of rules that say that tracking can't be shared. I'll give you an example. I decide to buy a very sugary cereal. That is not shared with my insurance company that underwrites my health insurance. And there's all kinds of laws that prevent that. But that's just a flimsy law. That's a moment in time that could change. If that decision were to change, now my buying patterns
[01:04:21] become subject to scrutiny. That could also apply to how I consume information on these networks. So we have to find a way to make sure that you can transact. Right? The great thing about the US dollar is when you get a dollar and you put it in your pocket, the physical dollar bill, it is completely funible. Nobody knows what it was used for in the past. Nobody can judge how you use it in the present or in the future. And we have to find a way to replicate a
[01:04:46] version of that so that you can preserve privacy and minimize censorship. Because if you have to transact all day, every day online for everything and there's no way to shield some amount of privacy, it's a very scary outcome. One other point on this is I do think that if you look at kind of who's promoting a lot of these scary narratives about AI, it is people on the far left of the political spectrum. Because when you create enough fear in a population, the people cry out for
[01:05:17] government to intervene and save them. And I don't think it's a coincidence that again that a lot of the the voices who are spreading this like doomer ideology and saying that we need the AI models to be reporting a lot more things to the government which is a stepping stone to surveillance or previously they had said we need to embed DEI in AI models or we need AI models to prevent discrimination which
[01:05:43] is kind of their back door for doing the same thing. They're on the left of the political spectrum. And I do kind of worry that people on the right are buying into this in a way that's actually going to lead to a lot of government intervention in a way that actually could lead to the orient outcomes that we're talking about. Mhm. I don't think that people on the right who are concerned about civil liberties should want the government to play this super intrusive role in AI, if that
[01:06:11] makes sense. Of course it does. Of course it does. I think you've got a lot of people suddenly in the United States who are very sensitive about power and feel like their own power has eroded so dramatically almost down to nothing. Their economic power, their political power, the power of their vote, the power of the dollar in their pocket like have all been really reduced and all of a sudden you have a technology that
[01:06:34] promises to concentrate power still further in the hands of people other than them. And so they're they're touchy about it. I mean they're definitely just freaked out in general. I agree. Right. So that's that's the backdrop. So people who feel panics like that and I'm I have power but I still I sympathize with it and I feel it to some extent there you know you're more open to to dumer scenarios when you feel that way and so it would be helpful. Yeah
[01:07:00] just to reassure people you will be protected and yes there is an upside for you. Yeah, look, I I agree with that and I I think there's actually a couple other things that account for like the visceral nature of the criticism because I'm on the receiving end of a lot of it right now, so I I see it. Um, so one of them is when people hear AI, they think that's not me. Like that doesn't include me, right? So there's all these benefits that are so supposedly being created,
[01:07:23] but I'm not going to participate in that. In fact, I might even lose my job. This is why I think it's like pretty important to get out the message about how the whole country potentially benefits from this, not just a small click in Silicon Valley. Have you come up with examples of it, Sax? Like how the country benefits from it? Well, sure. I mean, there's an article that didn't we cover last week, the the
[01:07:41] Wall Street Journal talking about how construction workers have seen their wages increase 30%. Because of the data center buildout, I mean, we are seeing a huge infrastructure boom throughout the country on energy production and construction that's related to this. And so it's not just software where people are benefiting. But the other thing I think that's very visceral on the right is that the hatred of big tech quite frankly. I mean a lot of conservative
[01:08:06] influencers were directly censored and shadowbanned during this co period especially where the big tech companies you know in the b administration were really coming down on them and censoring them and there's still a lot of hatred towards big tech. I think some of that's even misplaced, but there's been like almost like a transference. Also, with social media, a lot of people have concerns about what social media is doing to kids, body image concerns or
[01:08:33] fear of online predators, all that kind of stuff. And I don't think it's an analogous situation with AI chatbots because you're not meeting people, you're kind of doing research. It's like a whole different activity. But I think there's almost like a transference of anger or anxiety or fear from what happened over the last decade or two with social media or with again like these online platforms and that's being
[01:08:55] transferred over to these new AI platforms. Even though I don't think they're precisely analogous and the regulations should be looked at a little bit differently. Let me Jason give you some credit. I do think you've put your finger on the pulse of what the problem is. Whether we call it a perception or a misperception, the point is people are afraid for jobs of their jobs. That I agree with you. I think the data about what has happened
[01:09:18] though is is pretty flimsy that it actually has seen a bunch of job loss. For example, when we got home from the Christmas party, Sachs last night, I turned on CNBC and it was Jim Kramer and he was interviewing this wonderful guy who I'd never heard speak before, but he's the the founder and chairman of Service Titan. And he had this very elegant way of describing it, which is AI will put the jobs that are purely
[01:09:44] cognitive at risk. But when you marry cognitive ability with physical dexterity, those jobs are thriving. And he talked about construction workers, plumbers, electricians. In fact, this week when I was in Abu Dhabi, we were talking about the transformation of power, right? and that these electricians now get paid five six 7 $800,000 a year which by the way just FYI is more than most engineers in Silicon Valley. Okay, these guys are the ones that are actually winning but the stories are not told and then the incentives aren't there. And so there's
[01:10:22] a bunch of things that I think need to happen to highlight where the success stories are. They're not the obvious places that one would think. It's not just some engineer tickling the keyboard making millions of dollars and putting people out of work. That's not what's happening. But I don't think the story is told. And so the palpable fear of job loss is there. To your point, I do agree with you, Jason. That is the overriding narrative that we have to with data and
[01:10:49] facts convince people of what is actually happening. There is definitely a narrative that's ahead of the job loss. And the question is what pace will it happen at? when people are seeing young people having a hard time getting jobs and you know for whatever reason but I I I suspect it's AI when they see firms like Amazon estimating estimating in the future they're going to eliminate these 600,000 jobs and that leaks and
[01:11:16] that they're going to do a PR campaign about it when you see drive-throughs moving to AI and when you see a third of rides in San Francisco and LA move to Whimo without the driver in it it's really hard to say it's not happening so We're just on a different It's a matter of what timeline it's happening on. You can't have it both ways where, you know, these companies are raising billions of dollars and they're replacing jobs and
[01:11:41] saying, "Hey, these jobs are going to be 10 times more efficient or we're going to replace your driver and we're going to replace your cashier." I see that as an early stage investor in founder university. I see it every day. Company, hold on, let me finish, please, gentlemen. People are pitching me on startups and they're getting funded for these startups to specifically replace roles and they're saying, "We want to make the perfect sales development rep.
[01:12:06] We want to make the perfect customer support agent and enterprise customers are agreeing with them and buying these products and services specifically to stop hiring and increasing their headcount. I see it on the front lines. It is definitely happening. The only difference is timelines and can we create enough jobs? This is why I think we've done a bad job of explaining it. We need to explain for every one of
[01:12:32] those robo taxies that gets out there and that job is gone. How do we get that person another job? Because they're not going to get the job as a cashier at Starbucks anymore cuz that's going AI too. Here's a very practical idea. Yesterday I was at the Senate to just talk about this. What is the idea? I think we have to start looking very honestly at stopping the federal underwriting of student loans. Why? Because it would
[01:12:58] allow the market to move very quickly to your reality, Jason. Because we would go beyond just funding somebody to become a master electrician. I suspect that we would pay people. Yes, I bet if you went to Google, they would not only subsidize you, they would probably pay you a salary to get educated to do that job because once you graduated and you could work up the ranks and become a master electrician, there is so much work that
[01:13:25] for example Google needs, Amazon needs, Microsoft needs. And so if you eliminated the federal underwriting, we don't have it for car insurance. We don't have it for home mortgages. We allow the free market to tell us this home is more risky than that home because it's near a fire area. This person is a poorer driver than that other person. We should allow the free market to say go to this kind of a job
[01:13:47] and you'll get paid so much, but go to this other kind of a degree. It will cost you a lot of money. And let people decide with more clarity. But that one thing would allow us to reinforce what the economic upside of AI is in a very practical way for a lot of people and it would solve this student debt crisis that we're in. Sax, should there be a license fee or a tax? This has been floated by people. I'm not saying this is my position, but should there be a tax on having a robo taxi or a humanoid robot that is