[00:42:58] I I don't know what they are. America first, America only. Okay. I I don't know what they are. These are slogans, anti- slogans. Here's what I will say. I think it's very important, and I speak as an immigrant. I want to be American. I don't consider myself Canadian American. I don't consider myself Sri Lankan Canadian American. I consider myself American. I want to absorb and I want to reflect the values of this country. I want to know
[00:43:24] and be able to talk to you about the constitution of this country. I want to be able to celebrate the cultural heritage of this country. That's part of the compact that I think I'm making. And I do think that's an important thing that we have all lost where we have to run around in all of our traditional garb and it just loses that what makes countries great is a shared set of principles and values and we have to
[00:43:50] find a way of doing that. When I immigrated from Canada, what I will tell you is Canada took the opposite view. We used to call America a melting pot pjoratively, even in textbooks, and the textbooks would call Canada a toss salad. And we would celebrate that that form of multiculturalism was better. But when you fast forward the clock 20 years, all it did was create confusion. For example, if you go to school in Canada, there's like a bajillion
[00:44:17] holidays. Every culture gets their day off. Then all of a sudden, what happens? The kids don't get educated because you have to have every longtail country get recognized in some way, shape, or form. All of a sudden you lose this very standard form of basic organization. That's just but one example. You know the forms are in 50 languages. All that does is create chaos. It should have been in English and French because those are the two official languages of the country. All of that indirection trying
[00:44:42] to celebrate everybody's heritage confuses and slows that country down. And you can see it in the GDP. You can see it in the FDI foreign direct investment. You can see it. So the one thing that we have to agree is that there is an American culture and set of values and we should not lose it and we should ask the people that want to be here to embrace it. We all embraced it. Saxs embraced it. If you talk to Sax's parents, they've embraced it. If you
[00:45:06] talk to Freeberg, Freeberg's parents, we all came from different countries, but we are fundamentally American. Jake Cal, I'm I wasn't sure, but were you intimating that the party behind Nick Fuentes's meteoric success is the Russians? No, no, I was just saying that there's brigading going on. Which foreign actor do you think it is? I, you know, some of them just want to create chaos. I put Russia in that. Just
[00:45:31] creating division in America distracts Americans. I think they like that. But I there are three levels of this. There's his army. Fuentes does have an army of super fans who are disaffected young men. And there's a reason why they're disaffected. It's hard to get jobs. It's impossible to get a home. Health care. They've seen people, you know, go bankrupt because of healthcare. If you look at healthcare, homes, and education, those are the three most
[00:45:56] important things we have to fix in America. That's why young people are disaffected. And when you're disaffected as a youth and somebody starts blaming the Jews, the blacks, the Hispanics, the border, this issue, that issue, it's really appealing because then you don't have to take any personal responsibility for it. And it is in fact really hard to own a home in most cities in America unless you move to Texas or, you know,
[00:46:20] Nashville, Florida, and then there's too many homes and prices are going down. and he's a kid and he says stupid stuff, but he says he does tap into that disaffectedness. Where would you put it if you ranked it, Tucker, since you are pretty plugged into this? Is Fuentes's popularity based on the Gropers and this like really inside group of people who are amplifying him, is it what he's saying or is it like some foreign actors promoting him? How would you handicap
[00:46:51] his massive popularity? And then we'll move on. All all three play a role I would say and if you want to know who is primarily responsible for amplifying him consider who benefits. If you wanted to discredit America first say a foreign policy then you would put it in the mouth of someone who is pro- Hitler. Of course, anytime I hear someone endorsing Hitler, I love Hitler. Then I'm like, h, you know, the Fed alarm goes off or the
[00:47:16] inorganic alarm goes off, right? Okay. A B, he is the product of a system that the rest of us tolerated and certain among us created and we shouldn't be surprised. You know, if you have identity politics, at some point you're going to get white identity politics. I think I wrote a book about this almost 10 years ago, which was totally ignored, but that's inevitable. It's inevitable. And so to fix it, it's not a matter of censoring Nick Fuentes or anyone who
[00:47:45] likes Nick Fuentes. It's a matter of dracializing our society and making it a fair society where rewards or condemnation are not given on the basis of your DNA. Like you can't have that and hope to avoid a Rwanda because it's just going to happen. It's inevitable. Tribalism is the threat to every society and I don't know how we lost sight of that but we did you people are sort of saying he's a fed he's accusing you of being a fed
[00:48:16] you know I don't know the whole fed conver I unfortunately so he it's such a long story I won't even bore you with it but he attacked my father at one point so I got baited into it and and I called him a fed um you know I don't I don't know uh but I do know that there are and I think that Fuentes is pime. Let me just be clear. I think he's primarily successful because of his talents and because of the obvious truth behind some of what he is saying. I just right the
[00:48:44] government of this country or any country should act on behalf of its own citizens and ours doesn't. And that's an outrage. So, okay, that's just true. But the white identity politics part of it once again is inevitable. Identity politics will give birth to white identity politics. Why wouldn't it? and your e efforts to stamp it out will never work because they're too hypocritical. So the only way to fix that if you don't like it is to
[00:49:08] eliminate all identity politics, which we should do tonight because it's the road to disaster. That's it. I have an No text AI question for Tucker. I'm increasingly surprised by the number of people on the right who I would describe as ardent free market low regulation to no regulation folks who are very anti- AI and I'm just curious where do you think that comes from and what do you think it comes from so far as I can tell the
[00:49:41] perception that the risks outweigh the benefits. So the risk would include, you know, massive job loss, chaos where nobody sort of knows if anything is real and the fabric of reality itself begins to tear. You know, of of course the massive energy draw and the huge and expensive infrastructure changes that will require the disruption that will inevitably cause. So like the downsides are super obvious. Not even to mention
[00:50:10] the potential this gets completely away from us and eats us or something. Okay. As weighed against the potential benefits which are what and I I don't doubt that there are some you know coming to faster you know diagnostic conclusions in medicine you know or organizi you know getting rid of tedious tasks that no one wants to do elimination of clerical work etc. I guess those are upsides, but I it's disproportionate. The in the view of most people, I think who aren't experts in this, not daily involved in it, the
[00:50:43] risks far outweigh not just the upsides, but the announced upsides. So, typically when we roll out a new product, we tell the people we hope to buy it like, "This is going to be amazing. It's going to blow you away. Everything about your life will be better once you get the iPhone 27 or whatever." There's been none of that with AI. Like, none. The announcement has been, "Holy, this is going to change everything. Stop." How exactly? Well, it just is. I mean, I
[00:51:10] don't know who's in charge of the marketing for this. Seriously, Sam Alman, Sam Alman, and David Sachs, go David. Uh, wait, hold on. Can I just Can I just follow up on this? Okay, so Tucker, here's just a thought exercise and just tell me how this factors into that opinion, if it should at all. So let's say in a world in 10 years where you have these super intelligent computers and systems and models. Okay, in my thinking what that does is it reorders the geopolitics
[00:51:43] of all countries in the world where you're in one of three buckets. In bucket number one, you're an exporter of that intelligence. And I think right now steady state it's going to be China and America, right? China will have one version of exported intelligence and we will have one version of exported intelligence. Then there'll be these strategic partner countries of which I suspect there's less than 10 who are the enablers, the facilitators.
[00:52:12] They have specialized skills that wrap either the Chinese version or the American version with energy, with money, with knowhow, etc. And then I think there's everybody else. And it almost creates this thing where if you are an importer of intelligence in the future, you theoretically are at risk of becoming essentially a vassal state. And so if you think about it at that level, isn't AI something that is almost
[00:52:36] existential that we must win? I mean, for sure. I mean, at at that level, for sure. And I would just point out that like almost every single state in the world is already a vassal state. So like no change there. But uh yeah, I mean, you don't want to be the wrong side of it. That's clear. Is it containable to nation states? That's not clear to be honest to me at all. But whatever I get the argument. I'm just saying at the consumer level, no one has
[00:52:59] explained why we should be excited about this. And if I, you know, I'm a gold buyer and ammo buyer and freeze-dried food buyers already told you. So it doesn't kind of affect me as an investment matter, but like just I I think it would be so I I don't have a You're saying the dividend of AI is not clear. Like it's like the positive to the average person to the average person. You are 100% correct, Tucker, on this.
[00:53:23] We have done a terrible job as an industry communicating. What's the answer? What's the answer? Like how is this great for the answer? It it'll wind up being great for you because the prices of goods and services will get much lower. You'll live much longer. And listen, I'm not saying this is mine, but this is what the industry should be saying. The price of education is going to go down 80 or 90%. You're going to have customized, adaptable education
[00:53:47] versus, you know, paying for $50,000 a year degrees. You're going to be able to learn anything in half the time at 90% less. All of these deliveries coming to your home are going to be delivered at half the price, twice as fast, because it's going to be in a drone or it's going to be in a self-driving car. And we're going to make breakthroughs in health care that will reduce suffering. And you will not die of cancer. You're going to live to 120. We will have job displacement, but we believe the lower
[00:54:16] cost of living and the greater services that are going to be available to you in healthcare and education will make up for that. And if it doesn't, we're going to put in ways to pace out the job displacement. In China, they're doing this. In China, they're proposing and Sax and President Trump, the amazing President Trump, will be doing an AI national edict soon, I believe, or an executive order. But in China, in Wuhan, paradoxically, they are talking about
[00:54:45] giving out licenses to self-driving cars in a paced roll out so that young men don't lose their jobs on mass, which is what we're about to see in America. And if we don't take this into account, and the great Zara will speak in a moment, that's when this will become, I think, the worst nightmare that you're talking about, the dystopian version of this. We need to figure out healthcare, homes, and education and make those free, close to free, and do a Manhattan project on
[00:55:17] creating 10 new cities with 10 million new homes and free healthcare for everybody and free education for trade schools, etc. That's what solves the problem. That's what nobody's doing. Sax, your chance to jump in here. Well, there's a lot of things going on here, but I think one of them is that humans are really attracted to either utopian or dystopian narratives. I think liberals are probably more attracted to utopian narratives and conservatives are attracted to dystopian ones. And I think
[00:55:48] the future is going to be more in the messy middle. I don't think it's going to be to either one of those extremes. And I agree that the industry has not done a good job. They've created a lot of fear. The whole AGI narrative didn't help because you had a lot of people in the industry saying we're going to get to AGI in two or three years. Those time frames have all been pushed back by the way or eliminated. You don't even hear that term or eliminated. People were saying a few
[00:56:11] years ago that we'd have AGI by now. Now no one is saying that. They're basically pushing by just on that that was exactly a function of the immaturity of our industry. So to what Tucker said, it is true. Well, it's a utopian mindset, right? Yeah. What they saw as utopian. I think a lot of people reacted, wait a second, that sounds pretty dystopian to me. And I also think it's what needed to be said in that moment to get that next quantum of money. They were telling the investors some version of what the
[00:56:34] investors either didn't understand or wanted to hear in order to get that next scale up capital. But now that we're past that and we're seeing more practical implementations, right now we're actually at the beginning, I think, of the positive productivity loop. And that isn't explained because we've spent so much time offering up this grand utopian vision. it does seem like an overpromise underdeliver kind of situation to show up and say oh now your DMV form you
[00:57:01] don't need to fill it out anymore and people are like wait a minute that's what we spent all this money on and I think that we should have taken a much more conservative view in explaining what the upside was in the past perfectly said Chimoth and I think Tucker one way to frame it is the abundance of Star Trek versus you know to Sax's point the dystopian nature of Terminator 2 one of the great paradoxes here we we will have mass massive job displacement, destruction, whatever term
[00:57:25] you you prefer in entry- level jobs already happening in, you know, what I'll call chores like dishes and driving cars. Entrylevel jobs. Those are going away. And they're going to go away in the millions. And they're going to go away in the millions in the short to midterm. 2, three, four, five years. You're going to have people protesting in the streets over this issue. I don't know you agree with it. You say it every
[00:57:50] time. You interrupt me every time I say it. But I will be right on this one. You will be wrong because you'll see taxi drivers are going to be the first group to do it. And it's already happening in different places in the world as I mentioned in China and it's already starting to happen in places like San Francisco where they're burning the whimos and with them for a reason. The abundance argument is something we need to get on and we need to get on it quick or we need to get on some sort of
[00:58:12] promises about re-education and retraining. And you don't hear rich people and these rich companies talking about that half as much as they did. But you know what could be the great paradox, Tucker, is that the America First movement is acutely aware of this and shutting the border and deporting people, which I'm fine with deporting criminals. That actually might be the solution to the problem. As we deport
[00:58:36] people, as we don't let people in, unemployment might stay at a low enough level that we could manage giving the dishwasher jobs, the nanny jobs, the ones that maybe were being done by illegals, construction jobs, and we're just going to have to pay more for those. It's going to be $30, $40 an hour jobs. So, America First might actually be the solution to this displacement. May I just say one thing? I first of all, it makes me uncomfortable to hear you use the term re-education.
[00:59:04] Yeah. Sorry, I don't want that. But um you know the the the awesome power that AI gives governments and other concentrations of power over the population as a concern particularly in the United States where we have a bill of rights. And it seems to me it would be important and I never hear it raised to put in some guard rails to protect the average powerless person against surveillance or having his rights taken away in effect famously
[00:59:32] social credit. It's just too easy to extract compliance from people with technology this powerful. And of course, the very obvious next 10 years looks like this. There's a lot of disruption because of the elimination of jobs, particularly low-end jobs, but not only low-end jobs like lawyers and stuff, the the true revolutionaries in any society. and then the technology itself is used to keep the population under control