[00:14:41] you you know it's a slightly different picture here these paid services are doing extremely well and they are juggernauts in terms of making money and profitability now and UGC obviously is much larger especially on a global basis the more important Third thing here is how we do antitrust in the country. Trump wants to be involved in this. He said he's going to be very involved in it, you know, which as an
[00:15:05] 80-year-old, he's involved in everything. Why not be involved in this? He shouldn't be. Put that aside. I think we need to have a way to prevet these and then just let the highest bidder win. I don't know how this concept is getting convoluted, but the Ellison's are compromising Trump a bit here. I think that's why Trump gave a lot of shine to Ted Sarandos. I don't know if you saw his quotes about that sachs, but he was praising what a genius Ted
[00:15:29] Sarandos is and how amazing Netflix is. The Ellison's coming out and, you know, basically saying that they've got this in and, you know, they're going to basically have the inside track here, I think is one of the issues I propose we have a prevetting of these large deals because we want M&A to be vibrant in this country. We want more M&A after the wrath of Lena Khan. So I think you should be able to prevet chimoth. You should be able to go to the government
[00:15:57] and say, "Hey, we're considering selling this asset, whatever it happens to be, you know, YouTube back in the day. Is there anybody who's not able to participate in this auction and then just have the FTC prevet some of these and then highest bidder seems like what's best interest in the best interest of shareholders." So kind of that's untenable. And the reason why Yeah, explain. You have multiple facets of antitrust that can come up from any
[00:16:21] number of organizations in the United States. And that's just but one part of the complexities you have to navigate because if you do business in any other country, all of these other countries are in a position to opine. Oh, sure. If you think about doing a deal where you're in China and that other asset is in China, it can slow down for a very, very, very long time and never happen for reasons that have nothing to do with the industrial logic of the merger. So I
[00:16:45] don't think you can prevet these things because it's not scalable and I think the government would get frustrated because you'd have a thousand people outside the door. They'd have no time to do anything else. They have to govern. The different thing that we have to figure out whether is allowed is how these deals are getting done. The only thing that I would observe is the two biggest transactions that have happened thus far this year that I've taken note of happened as total raw asset sales to
[00:17:09] work around antitrust. The best example was Meta and Scale AI. Okay, I'll say this thing is worth 30 billion. I'll give you 15 billion in cash, but what am I really doing? I'm carving out these assets so that I don't have to file even an HSR filing. So, I think the future is that if the government has to have an opinion, not just America, but the Europeans, the Chinese, what's going to happen instead is that
[00:17:34] very smart lawyers who get paid, you know, 10, 20, $30 million a year, the NBA salaries now, they're going to find workarounds. they've already done so for big tech and I think it'll spill over to other industries. You're kind of like creating these boundary conditions where I think the concept of antitrust is going to be a very difficult thing because if businesses want to be in business, you're not going to do these traditional deals. as David said, an
[00:18:00] enormous sign of confidence about how there isn't going to be a competitive threat for Paramount to just say, "We'll take the whole thing." Because they're subjecting themselves to a level of scrutiny that they wouldn't if they felt there was any shred of a good argument for competitive antitrust. Yeah. I just want to um address the gratuitous potshot at President Trump. Which one? Well, your claim that he shouldn't get involved and somehow antitrust is better if the presidents don't get involved.
[00:18:27] You may remember that Teddy Roosevelt was known as the trustbuster because he directed the DOJ to sue 45 companies under the Sherman Act, including the whole Northern Securities Company. His successors, William Howard Taft, Woodro Wilson, FDR, they were just as aggressive using antitrust. Anyway, a lot of presidents have gotten involved in mergers and antitrust actions. So, it's just not that unusual.
[00:18:52] Yeah, I just check brought to you by Grock. Oh, yeah. That's great. Um, yeah. We need to have like a Grock fact check part of the show. We We need a Grock fact check. No, the reason I would say it's problematic for Trump to get involved in it is because the Ellison's have also been major supporters of Trump and made commitments for buying Tik Tok. Now you have one family who is a major supporter of Trump, massive donators basically getting the inside line on Tik
[00:19:22] Tok and now after a deal has been closed with Netflix being able to lobby to get Trump to let them buy CBS and CNN. So if we start thinking about the influence that Ellison, the Ellison family is having on the Trump administration, whether it's quidd proquo or it's the appearance of quid proquo, it's best for Trump to stay out of it because already we have the tick tock deal. Now CBS they own and they're going to own CNN. This is a lot of consolidation for one family
[00:19:53] to have. That's a red herring. Between CBS and CNN, nine people watch those two channels. So those channels are irrelevant. Those guys have to rebuild these things from scratch. Number one. And number two, it doesn't incentivize or disincentivize 3 billion humans from using and watching that content. Who owns that asset is not known to any of these people. CBS did not go up and down because, you know, one person owned it
[00:20:16] versus another. Nobody knows who the CEO of Tik Tok is. It's Tik Tok is either good or not good. And so, I would just keep in mind that this is something it's like the party circuit babble. Like you go there and you talk about it like, "Oh my god, it's so bad. It's so good." And you miss the basic fact that nothing about the ownership changes the human incentive to use a good product and to disqualify a product. Maybe I would take the other side of it.
[00:20:42] There's still millions of people watching this and it's pretty clear that millions of people watch this show because it's good. No, no. Ultimately, people are people are going to be drawn to great products. There's no doubt about that. But consolidation of the major news assets CBS and the influence of Tik Tok and the influence of CNN is undeniable. That is just undeniable. Undeniable to undeniable for what? Just reality. Reality Americans. No, not
[00:21:10] my reality. You can try and insult me. That's not the point here in one company. No, it's not my reality. That's not where I get my news from. Millions of people don't watch CBS and CNN. It's not true. Literally, it's 4 million people who watch it. So yes, it is technically millions. If you're adding it all up over what, a year, dduplicated, like what is what is CNN's most qualified, bestrun, most popular
[00:21:32] show? Okay. Uh on the network or on the news? I don't know cuz I don't have it. I don't even have cable. Yeah, I know. And you don't even pay for you asked your friends to steal New York Times articles. Everybody will I am the lead. You get the final word. Having lived inside the beast, should Trump be involved in these mergers and acquisitions? Yes or no? Chuck or call? Well, you're not going to stop him, so it doesn't matter. What should we be concerned about is not media monopoly
[00:22:05] power. It's censorship of the tech platforms. A return to that. That is where you destroy creativity and diversity of thought. put the entire nation into the mental prison from which it escaped last November. That's that is the threat. Censoring YouTube x Instagram and I I just think we should be focused on that. And what's your take on Barry Weiss taking over CBS News? I'm not sure if you've commented on me. I mean, I'm kind of impressed. I mean, I you know, it's easy to make fun of Barry
[00:22:36] Weiss for being dumb or whatever, which is fair, but it's you have to sort of look at it in reverse image and it's negative. It's like with those talents you got where you're amazing and I will say I agree with that. I think that she's charming. She's tireless, energetic. I don't know that still matters. Like we we overvalue IQ. Oh, a person's so smart, you know? It actually doesn't matter. Like being charming, meeting people, you know, pushing an agenda tirelessly, like that
[00:23:09] that really works. And in the end, the prize she got is not worth having. Like I how would you like to run CBS news such as it is? No, for real. That's torture. They couldn't pay you enough. What would you do if you had CNN? They put it in your laper and they say you're forced to be CEO of it for the next 10 years. What would you do? Well, actually, I've had that conversation. Slightly more relevant. What would you do if you ran my son's school newspaper? Because it's about the same skill. Oh, I'd get radical.
[00:23:34] Actually, Tucker had an interesting answer. Any other good questions? No, it's a great question. Tucker was about to answer it. Thanks for stepping on it, Jamai. The CNN question. I mean, I spent almost 10 years there, so I I feel like I'm familiar with it. Yeah. I have, you know, I actually had this conversation with someone was like, "We should buy CNN. You should run it." And I So, I had caused to spend like an evening thinking about it and no way. I mean, what? First of all, I'm with
[00:23:58] Chimath. Like, I don't have a New York Times or Washington Post or New Yorker subscription anymore after a lifetime of having all three because they're totally irrelevant. They mean nothing. They're speaking to no one. And there's a kind of musty. It's like going back to your childhood home and seeing that your bedroom was really small and like the paint was actually turquoise and all these kind of sad posters from the '8s are still there. It's depressing. Like I
[00:24:21] would just shut it down and and build something new. Okay, shut it down. Jason, can I give you my one thought exercise about the New York Times? The one thing that I think is worth talking about the New York Times is I think they will in the next five years do something so egregious and over the line akin to some sort of liel or some sort of statement that has turned out to be completely false, they will get sued.
[00:24:43] And I hope when that settlement happens, the person says, "I do not want to get paid the $4 billion. I want this to be turned in into a nonprofit and into a public trust." And then shuts it down. Interesting. That's kind of what happened with Fox when they did their 700 $800 million settlement, the largest one. But the next one, Jason, the next one will go up. It won't be that scale because you've had now that that
[00:25:10] precedent. That's a very important precedent about the scale of lying and misrepresenting things. And it only goes up from here. This is a one-way ratchet. Yeah, you couldn't be more wrong about that. Uh it's definitely not going to happen. They have controls in place, but it's a nice fantasy. They're also crushing it. By the way, when they moved to subscriptions, they have 12 million paid subscribers now. They are objectively crushing it and figured it out better than any other news organization. Whether we agree or
[00:25:34] disagree with, you know, their content and the quality of it, they are the most successful objectively here in America. No text All right, speaking of successful in taking over the dialogue, we got to talk about Nick Fentes, who you just had on your podcast, Tucker. You platformed him. Being facitious here, you platformed him. I I created him. Basically, it's an interesting discussion. For those of you who don't
[00:25:59] know, Nick Fuentes and have been living under a rock. He's a 27year-old white nationalist with a very popular show on Rumble, about 500,000 subscribers, which isn't actually that big when you think about it. His followers call themselves Gropers, and he's gained hundreds of thousands over the past six months. He's on quite a heater, and uh he's got a bunch of controversial opinions. I'll just give you the quotes. This is nothing to do with my opinion on him. He
[00:26:27] was asked by Piers Morgan if he described himself as a racist. And he said, "Totally, I think everybody, if we're being honest, is racist. The only people that aren't racist or pretend not to be are white people to their detriment on women." Piers asked Nick if he was gay. Nick said, "No, but I will say women are very difficult to be around." Piers uh then asked, "And do you think they should have the right to vote?" Nick said, "I do not." Absolutely
[00:26:53] not. On Israel, Fuentes is very critical and what he calls organized jewelry in America. So now you interviewed him. Couple of different ways to take this, but you did a good job of telling his origin story. He was part of Prageru. He's got this really activated base. Why is he resonating at this moment in time? And maybe you could explain to the audience. MAGA versus America first, America Only, which I think are part of
[00:27:26] America First, but you you you tell us because I think these are just terms right now. They're not like political parties or anything. Well, there's a struggle over what those terms mean. It's very ugly and probably necessary because you need to define terms. Like that's the first thing you do, I would say, when you think through what you should be doing with your life, for example. So, um, as for Fuentes, his origin story is a little more precise, and I'll keep it short, but he tweeted
[00:27:52] something as a freshman at BEu, critical of, pretty mildly critical of the Congress for doing the bidding of this foreign country, Israel. And somehow Ben Shapiro saw that and attacked him and tried to get him kicked out of his Republican club and made sure he didn't get an internship with some conservative organization. And I'm not attacking Ben Shapiro, but that kind of tells you what attempts to shut people down, to shut
[00:28:18] conversations down result in. They don't go away. They just fester in the darkness and they can sometimes become really ugly. So what Fuentes is, among other Well, first of all, Fentes is saying a lot of true things. That's why he's popular. He's funny. Uh he's smart. But he's a good Yeah, he's a great broadcaster. But Fuentes on some macro level is troubling because he his platform is an expression of something that has kind of
[00:28:48] taken over all political discourse which is identity politics, tribalism. And I'm just opposed to that. I period and always will be. And I I just think that we're governed by universal principles or we're governed by the mafia. Those are our choices. And so you you know our principles have to apply to every human being or certainly every American citizen. Period. or they're not principles. Um they're just a justification uh for tyranny. So
[00:29:12] Fuentes, you know, has a different kind of identity politics, but there are all kinds of different identity politics. We we lived under it during the Biden years. We've lived under it most of my life actually in one form or another. And so if anything, Fuentes reminds us that we have to come up with some kind of principle that every American can ascribe to something called national identity. That is not a dirty phrase.
[00:29:35] that's actually necessary to keep the country from disintegrating, comma, which it is. So like what does every American, all 350 million have in common with every other? And that's the conversation we need to have. And in its absence, then we get a lot of people popping up and being like, well, all white people over here and all black people or Jewish people or whatever. That's not going to work. That will end in violence. Everyone knows that. And so
[00:29:58] now is probably a pretty good time to figure out what we all have in common. I didn't platform him. I in first of all platform is not a verb and anyone who says it is a verb is probably opposed to my core interests I would say and bad language. Yeah. I interviewed him like interview everybody you know and my general belief is you should let people say what they think and others can decide whether they mean it or not whether they're being false or sincere and and what they think
[00:30:25] of what the person is saying. But that's that's my job. I'm not ashamed of it despite a lot of efforts to make me ashamed of it. I do disagree with Fuentes on the question of universal principles. I think it's im well first of all it's against my religion to hate any group and I told him that. But I didn't do a lot of other posturing designed to make me seem like you know the good person. Peers unfortunately fell into that trap as an older man you know well isn't it you are bad and it's
[00:30:50] like okay I don't even disagree with some of that but you don't elevate yourself. you look like an outofouch buffoon. And that's exactly the trap that was awaiting Piers Morgan. And if you watch that interview and if you watch the reaction to it, that did not diminish Nick Fuentes in any way. It enhanced Nick Fuentes. What diminishes Nick Fuentes is asking him straightforward questions, particularly about women. Not have you had sex with