[01:25:06] was implicated in this crime, I think it's fair to ask like how did you reach that conclusion? And did you look at this that and the other thing? And I don't think we should be intimidated out of asking those questions. Those are not unpatriotic questions. Those are questions that I think uh you know express our uh reverence for Charlie Kirk. This is a way to honor him and any American who's murdered. So
[01:25:29] sorry. By the way, just on this if anybody has not watched Tucker's documentary Yep. about the Butler, Pennsylvania shooter, I can't remember his name. We're memorizing that anyway. So, please don't ask any questions. Yeah. What happened with that? Jeez. I thought your documentary was pretty kick-ass. Worth. Well, thank you. And it just I mean it look it was really good. We we asked obvious questions, couldn't get straightforward answers. I do think the more you did more than this. I have to give
[01:25:54] you credit because you were able to scrub internet searches. You went back to the way back machine. There was a level of detail because my interpretation was it seemed like you guys were afraid of just getting sh on from everybody. And so you went to the point of making sure that this stuff was irrefutable fact. And you had a level of detail in there, which I hadn't seen in an investigative research piece in a long time. I do encourage people to
[01:26:20] watch it. I thought it was very good. Well, the good news about being universally hated is it keeps your standards higher um because you can't afford, you know, to make too many mistakes. No, but we can't have too many, you know, high-profile murders or attempted murders that don't have firm, believable resolutions. The the the social fabric can't handle that because then people become totally postmodern in their thinking and don't believe anything. So, that's incumbent on
[01:26:45] federal authorities to reassure us. Tucker, if you are running the Republican campaign going into the midterms, what do you do the same? What do you do more of and what do you do less of? Well, I would, you know, I' I'd focus on domestic economic issues to the exclusion of everything else. I would and um I would I think that's that's the main concern. It's always the main concern. Now, I'm entering into very benal territory because I'm repeating every uh you know obvious observation in
[01:27:15] the past 100 years in American politics. But people do care about that and they are concerned. AI is part of that probably not in its reality but in its expectation and it's the fears that people have about what's coming. Um, and so I would I would try to address those issues at least by explaining them. I do think like well I'm in the explaining business so I'm biased but 80% of the problem this is true in marriage and
[01:27:41] child rearing and governing as well. You need to explain what you're doing, what's going to happen. I'm going to give you the shot. Count backwards from 10. By seven you're going to be asleep. When you wake up you'll be fixed. Like that's what they tell you in surgery. And they tell you that for a reason. They don't just roll you into a dark room and start injecting you with stuff. They walk you through it. And that's enormously reassuring. In fact, it's critical. And so, we just need a lot
[01:28:03] more of that from everyone and not just government, but people with a platform explaining what the hell is going on because we're getting to a place where trust is vanishingly rare and that's bad. That creates volatility. After 3 hours with Milo Yiannopoulos, is homosexuality nature or nurture a trauma response? And David Freeberg wants to know, why are you so gay? Why are you gay? Why are Why are you gay? I just wanted to do an interview where I could quote my favorite uh Nigerian but um no I mean
[01:28:40] well clearly it's not nature at least primarily or we wouldn't be having an absolute rise in it and there would be some hint of a gene responsible for it. I mean so many different um you know genetic manifestations have been isolated from the from the decoding of the human genome and that we're not you know so no clearly it is primarily um nurture that's not an attack on anyone doesn't make it any less real I'm not saying it's fake of course it's the opposite of fake it's very very real um
[01:29:10] and it's not even a value judgment it's just an observation I I think on the question of sexuality and gender it's best to depoliticize it. It's been so politicized, you can't even have an honest conversation about it or you get attacked from all sides. That how does that help anyone? It doesn't. And so, it's best just to look at this as cooly and as rationally as you can. Try to get to the truth and then allow people to make their own decisions about what to do with it. I mean, that's my view of everything really, but but it's time to
[01:29:38] take that approach to sexuality. Okay, final one. Should we be in NATO? Should America pull out of NATO? Of course, we shouldn't be in NATO. What? That's not I thought these were hard questions. Exactly. I give you sometimes I give you a little alleyoop. I let you dunk the ball. Why would we be in NATO? NATO is like the single most destructive force that we're a part of way more than the UN. NATO should we support Israel and give them weapons. It depends for what
[01:30:07] you know fight in Gaza and should they be our number one partner in the region? I think or the partner in the world really. I think I think all of our alliances should be assessed and now reassessed through a single lens. Does this help the United States and in the specific instance I'm certainly not against being allied with Israel and I'm not against supplying Israel with weapons? Again, it depends what they're being used for. But I do think what's
[01:30:31] happened in Gaza does not help the United States at all. I mean, tell me how it does. And um so yeah, I in fact, I'm not even sure what the argument that it has helped the United States would be. I've never heard it articulated. Instead, I've heard people name calling. You know, from my perspective, that's all I care about. And I got it. I never wanted to have this debate. I avoided it for many years. The only reason I get into it was the prospect of a of a
[01:30:56] regime change war in Iran. And I just thought, man, there is no way that helps us in any way. So, I piped up and said something and my life has been a disaster ever since. But my views have not changed. Is it good for the US or not? What is the future of Europe and the UK? Oh, it's so dark. I have family there. I was just there. I mean just there um I you know I let me start with the good news. I mean, everyone knows all of
[01:31:19] this, so I'm not going to repeat any of it other than to say finally Europeans, even the Germans, I spoke to one of the most powerful people in Germany yesterday about this, are starting to realize, wow, this is not going well at all. And and migration is there are many problems, but migration is the core problem. The second is energy. And they've made massive mistakes. They've committed self harm over decades. We can argue about why they did that, but there's a growing realization that they
[01:31:46] did. I was in Oslo this uh pretty recently, salmon fishing. And you go to Norway. I'm Scandinavian, so I pay attention. And all they talk about is Sweden. And of course, everyone's always kind of looked up to Sweden because it's huge and industrialized. And you know, Norway looked up to Sweden. Now you go to Norway and the Norwegians all say, "Man, the one thing we're not going to do is become Sweden and open our borders
[01:32:09] and destroy ourselves." So I think the Europeans are finally catching on to this and that's a blessing. Is it too late? I hope not. Maybe Finland and Norway caught it. Yeah, they caught it early and said we can only have this many people come in each year reasonably as a society. It's not that early. They've they've made a mess of Oslo. Oslo is a is not what it should be. But yeah, I mean it's not totally destroyed. So yeah. All right. Listen, when Tucker has a new
[01:32:34] product or service in the world, uh we he calls his boy Jal and we do a little mutual support. You're today uh launching uh some silver or gold apparently. Basically, we are selling gold as close to wholesale as we possibly can. Okay. And it's as usual a reaction against all the gold scams going on. But people should be able to easily buy physical gold with a minor transparent markup on the internet. You shouldn't have to call a number so you're fooled into buying a commemorative coin for,
[01:33:06] you know, eight grand an ounce or whatever, twice spot price. Um, so that's that's the idea. And uh and it's gone really well in the two weeks we've been open. What's the form factor? Are they It's It's like 1 oz coins or you guys Well, you can you can buy any kind of precious metal. Um I I am a personally a 1oz coin buyer of long-standing. Turned out to be a pretty good route. I would say I was much mocked by everyone I know. All the finance sophisticates I went to college with were, you know,
[01:33:38] making fun of me. You're a gold bug. You're crazy. Um and yeah, I do bury it in my yard because that's the kind of man I am, primitive. Um, but it has turned out to be a good thing. No, you can buy with a shovel. Oh, well, I've I've thought that through, Chima. I've also scattered millions of ball bearings around my backyard. So, good luck with your metal detector. That's so awesome. I'm not kidding. By the way, also coming in 2026, uh, Tucker
[01:34:09] Carlson's baked beans and fat. When you're prospecting out in the Wild West, you can get your Can I hear something weird? I used to work in a baked bean factory, actually, B&M baked beans in Portland, Maine in 1988, and for the summer, and I've never eaten a baked bean since because I made them and I I ODed on baked beans, but in general, they're good. Go buy yourself a gold coin at Battalion Medals. I think this is a great idea. I have to be really honest with you. M I do think that having this as a
[01:34:42] practical hedge, there's like a whole set of elements that we all have to be educated on to hedge the status quo and there are lots of reasons to own cryptocurrencies, gold. I'm glad you're doing this because the way that this is done for most people is completely bonkers and these sites unlike yours that typically sell direct to retail do not do a good job. So, I'm glad you're doing it. I hope it's a success. Thank
[01:35:09] you. And let me put also put in a good word for firewood and ammunition. I don't think those are better if you want to diversify your portfolio. Also, two wells. You got to have two wells, not just one. Different depths. That's what I have on the ranch. Two wells. Look, I think this is going to be very successful. Uh, congratulations, Tucker. I think this will be a very successful venture because you have a lot of trust with your audience and if like you're going to sell gold, like that's the most
[01:35:31] important thing is people just want to know that this is like 100% legit pure gold. And what's your daily carry? And the lowest price they can get. What's your daily what's your daily carry? What do you What do you carry around the the the ranch or whatever? What's your daily How much do I carry in gold? No. What's your what's your pistol? What's your piece? What do you keep on your side? Oh, I carry a Ruger LCR in 38 special. I like the revolver cuz it doesn't go off
[01:35:55] accidentally and castrate you. So, yes, that's personally 100 Ruger. It's a great Okay, so people like these highcapacity striker fire handguns and I just I'm a revolver man. Everyone makes fun of me, but that's how I feel. No, you know what? You leave that revolver in the bottom of a pool for three years, take it out, hammer some nails, and then fire it. Still fires, dude. I'm the liberal here. Really? You don't say I'm a I'm a moderate. They say liberal to keep people tuning in. All right,
[01:36:24] everybody. When he's selling ads, he's a liberal. When he's spending his money, he's a conservative. I live I'm the only guy who lives in Texas on a ranch and carries a firearm. So, we'll just leave it at that. But, you never know. I might have some This guy moving to Texas. He's living two lives. He's living two lives. Every time he gets on a PJ, he's a conservative, but every time he has to talk to people, he's living in the PC24 and the Phenom 300 are great
[01:36:48] planes. And we had our holiday party last weekend. Wish you were there, Tucker. Tony Hingcliffe burned the place down. We did a live kill Tony. A little bit of roasting. A good time was had by all. Major thanks to our three partners. OKX hooked up the gifting suite, custom candles that fans loved. Also, they had No text a really classy milk and cookie bar. I ran sponsored all the VIP spaces with great cocktails. And Google Cloud built out an amazing lounge with spiked hot chocolate and other holiday drinks. Well
[01:37:20] done to our friends at Google Cloud. We will see you all next week on your favorite podcast, The All-In Podcast. Love you boys. Thanks, Tucker. Bye-bye. Thank you guys. See you. We'll let your winners ride. Rainman David and we open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you. Queen of your besties are gone. That is my dog taking notice your driveways. Oh man, my appetiter will meet. We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all
[01:38:06] just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. beak. Wet your feet. Your feet. That's going to be good. We need to get merch. I'm going all in.