[00:00:00] All right, everybody, welcome back to the All-In interview show, where we, the All-In podcast, dedicate an hour to just some of the great thinkers, creators of our time, and today will be no different. Daniel Ek is with us. You know him, the co-founder of Spotify, which he started 20 years ago, and he ran it for those two decades to an extraordinary state of affairs today. Well over 700 million active users, over
[00:00:31] 300 million premium subscribers, but on January 1st this year, he shifted and became the executive chairman with me and David Friedberg today. Daniel Ek, how are you, sir? Welcome to the program. >> Well, thank you so much for having me. It's good to be on. >> Yeah, it's good to see you. We've known each other for 20 years. I remember the first Shac, your partner, leaned into me at a internet summit or something and said,
[00:01:02] "Hey, check this out." And he showed me Spotify. But this was at a time when nobody had a subscription service. So we're going to talk today about your new startup, which is incredible in in the healthcare space. But take us back to the launch of Spotify and how that crazy idea got started. And then how hard it was to break through with the music industry, which are also known as the hardest partners in the world.
[00:01:31] >> I'm going all in. >> As your wealth grows, have you noticed how much more complex things get between investments, tax strategy, and estate planning, managing it all is a full-time job that you didn't ask for. Creative Planning can help. Their coordinated team of investment managers, CPAs, and affiliated estate attorneys can do much of the heavy lifting, so you don't have to. Creative Planning, where wealth
[00:01:55] works together. Go to creativeplanning.com/allin. >> I'm going all in. >> Yeah, well, uh I I usually start off by sort of saying whatever anyone asks me about the story is like, well, I had hair when I began this and by the end of this I obviously uh ended up being bald. So, uh you you can see that it wasn't an easy journey. All jokes aside, I mean, just to kind of set the scene, I mean, I started Spotify in 2006. I was 23 at the time
[00:02:24] um and the world looked a little bit different. So, this is pre uh iPhone, pre uh I mean, Facebook existed, but it was college-only. YouTube uh didn't exist. Uh so, just like that kind of dates me, but this is before all the things we now take for granted. And um and and the world at that time uh and the music industry at that time was in freefall because uh music piracy was kind of rampant. So, we had uh Napster,
[00:02:50] we had Kazaa, we had all these things and there was an organization called the RIAA that went around and actually sued individual consumers in the US for illegally downloading music. And so, I was sitting in Sweden and I was thinking to myself, you know, this is this is wild and this is crazy. There's no way to put the genie back in the bottle. And me and my co-founder Martin, um we were kind of sitting and spitballing
[00:03:14] startup ideas at the time and and you know, Martin asked me like, well, you know, if you could do anything you'd like to do, what would you do? And I said, well, you know, my real passion is music, but that that seems like a really stupid idea. And he's like, well, why is that a stupid idea? And I kind of told him about, you know, it's really hard because uh you have to do all these deals with the record companies, you
[00:03:36] have to then figure out how to do licensing and copyright and you have to do all of these different things. And he said, well, what if you did this? And then he kept asking these what if questions and eventually I ran out of reasons to say it. So, I said, well, I guess you could do something, and if you did something, it would feel like you had all the world's music at your fingertips. And he's like, well, that sounds pretty
[00:03:59] good. And I said, well, okay, well, let's give it a a try. Um we started trying to license music. Um The originally the idea was to try to go global from day one, and everyone was just laughing at at us when we were originally saying that. Um but I I sort of lucked out because it turned out that one of the worst music markets in the world was my home country, Sweden. And part of the reason why it was one of the
[00:04:26] world's music markets was because we had super fast broadband already from the early 2000s. So, we were kind of living in the future where people had such quick bandwidth connections that they could download pretty much whatever they wanted. So, they were were doing it, and iTunes actually wasn't even available in the marketplace. So, there was literally no legal options. So, I think the music industry had lost like 80% or something
[00:04:50] of its revenues. And so, it was like a it it was kind of this crazy uh you know, coincidence and kind of all of these things the complex of events where we figured out, you know, that me and my partner, we we basically took all of our own money that we had made from prior startups, and we said to the record labels, what if we would guarantee you that basically you'd keep your bonus for the next year, and you make your budget
[00:05:18] for the next year, you know, if if this really is as bad as you think it is, then you just shut it down after a year, but you still made the bonus. Um and if this actually works, you win as well. So, you win no matter no matter what. And they're like, okay, well, this seems kind of like an interesting idea. Um and they eventually after a few years of negotiation agreed to it. So, we launched in late 2008. Um and it instantly became a huge hit.
[00:05:45] We then took it to the UK um and made it huge hit there. And then in 2011, 15 years ago now, uh, we launched in the US. Um, and, uh, yeah, I'm in. And the rest is sort of a history. >> I mean, isn't it amazing, five years in the laboratory just to get to the to the to the US market is a quite a, uh, quite a journey. That's a lot of pain and suffering. >> Yeah, but but you know, you know the crazy thing is, uh, I'm on the same
[00:06:14] journey now again. >> Yeah. Here we are. >> Neko, actually, uh, as crazy as it is, uh, we started the company, um, eight years ago in 2018. Um, and we started it in Sweden, um, in 2023. So it took us five years to develop the product, um, try it out in Sweden. And then once we proven it in Sweden, we took it to the UK and did it there. Um, and then from there on, now we're launching in the US. So it's the exact Spotify playbook again, but this
[00:06:46] time in healthcare. >> One of the afflictions of great entrepreneurs is your entrepreneurial. All right, I mean, you just can't stop. >> Or maybe I just have a high, uh, pain tolerance. I'm not sure which one it is. >> Yeah, once things got smooth, you had to get back into it. But at what point did you start thinking about doing other things, Daniel? Were you like actively angel investing at Spotify over the years as CEO? The
[00:07:10] business is building hundreds of millions of users, it's public, successful. Things are growing nicely. You've got a great leadership team. We've obviously met a lot of your team over the years. How did you start to do these other projects? I know you've got a few others and and focus on Neko. >> Yeah, it's kind of crazy. I I'd forgotten about it, but but, uh, my team now showed me very recently, like I I apparently did this lunch with the FT
[00:07:33] interview in, I think, 2012 or 2013 or something. Just after the US, uh, launch of Spotify, uh, where I was talking about healthcare uh, already back then. So I've been thinking about healthcare specifically for a very very long time. Um and it's just been you know, I I I think a lot of people just talk about sort of all the stuff that's going bad in the world, but my view is that actually most things are going pretty well and it's kind of up
[00:08:03] into the right on the technology curve and all the things that we're getting, but I try to focus on the problems that aren't going that well. You know, one of those happens to be healthcare. So I've been kind of interested about this as like, you know, how is it that we're spending more and more money on healthcare, but getting worse and worse outcomes. Um and what can we do about it? And so that really kind of got me into the
[00:08:25] space. I think healthcare is kind of unique and kind of special. I honestly didn't have any money until Spotify went public, so I wasn't a prolific angel investor. >> What year was that? >> That was 2018 we went public. >> 18, right. Yeah. >> Yeah. So I probably started doing a little bit of investing in 2018, but I had no money before then, so you know, it was literally just kind of all in focus on Spotify for I guess
[00:08:54] you know, the better part of 12 13 years before I made any investing in in anything else. And then you know, you and I we were talking about it at this dinner like a week ago or something, but you know, I then tried to do a little bit of investing. I had actually already started uh Neko at that time and I kind of just realized that I loved building way more than I loved investing and and so right now >> Chamath came to the same conclusion.
[00:09:22] It's so painful to watch companies you invest in. This was our whole dinner conversation the other night. >> and you can't do anything. >> Well, you you spend time on boards. That's why I don't join boards anymore. You're sitting on a board you advise the CEO and they don't listen to you and you pull your hair out like I would have done something different. Why didn't you do this? And you know, and if they are listening to
[00:09:43] you and you're effectively instructing them on what to do, it also doesn't work because they're not leading. And so I I became pretty committed to this idea like you find amazing entrepreneurial founder CEOs, give them money and never look at it again and you'll be fine. Generally better than not. And then, you know, the flip side is if that's really what you're passionate about and you're you have the activity
[00:10:06] or the agency, it's to step in and do it yourself. >> more instruction they need, probably the less chance they're going to succeed. >> Yeah. >> So Daniel, maybe you could just give us the overview on Neko, kind of what the >> Yeah, and how you came to and how you came to that idea, right? How did you come to the this specific idea? >> I started researching the space uh a very, very long time ago. And maybe just as a quick primer for the audience,
[00:10:29] the US uh is spending 18% of its GDP on health care. It's the single largest line item uh in the budget uh right now. And if you take heart disease alone, um it's in the hundreds of billions of dollars that are being spent on that disease group alone in the US alone. I mean, it's just insane. It's larger than Fortune 10 companies revenues, uh just one disease group. So it's it's a gigantic uh problem um as I mentioned. And so I started
[00:11:00] looking into everything from like, you know, drugs to um you know, can you make more efficient drugs? Is it about cancers and and basically started like targeting like what are the the real reasons why it looks that way. And I think the the the real conclusion I ended up being there's lots of reasons, not one. Um you know, we see um but we see a few really big ones. Um um cardiology or cardi heart health is a
[00:11:26] major one. Uh we see um skin cancer melanomas being another big one. So there a few sort of major uh groups of illnesses that is over representative. Uh but, the major one is really chronic disease um overall. And the crazy thing about chronic disease when you read about it is that if you discover these things early, they're totally preventable and uh the cost of dealing with them is very small and the suffering for the person
[00:11:58] um you know, uh uh that are having it and their family and community is very small, too. So, the key thing is if you discover things early, um you're actually good. And so, then the question is, well, why don't we discover things early? And it it happens to be that we don't have enough data. So, everyone in the entire health care industry is in agreement that we have to take health care from reactive to preventative health.
[00:12:23] And uh but, then, you know, there uh now all the disagreements starts, which is how do you do that? And and uh our view, uh my co-founder Yael Mar and I, um our view is is really that it all starts with having better data. If you have better data, you're going to uh be able to discover things much more easily, and that in it in itself then leads you to uh have a chance of discovering those things much earlier,
[00:12:51] which then creates this virtual flywheel of then changing health care. >> So, predictive data that allows you to be predictive about future adverse health outcomes and course correct ahead of time. >> Yeah, that's that's the holy grail uh is to get to that point. And and and essentially, our view is that the way you get there is that you need a lot more data than you have today both uh for from each modality that you gather
[00:13:17] data, but also across multiple modalities, and you need it longitudinally. So, you need it over time. So, if you if you had a lot more data and you had it uh over time, uh you'd be able to have a lot higher likelihood of doing those kind of predictive analysis. And then what we then said is well, well, okay, how do we do that? And it so happened to be that if you think about really what's happened in the last 20
[00:13:44] years, one of the biggest innovations, of course, is the smartphones. And we've had more and more sensors packed into those smartphones, so there's more and more cheap sensors and cheap electronics that's available to us. So our view was like, okay, well, we should be able to utilize this to build a lot more sensors than what's been able to be built before. And then the other thing, you know, we started pre-the LLMs and
[00:14:06] everything like that, but it was then called machine learning, but today we talk about it as AI. We should have a lot better intelligence. So if we have all these massive data sets, we should be able to make really good predictions about it. And obviously again, similar to that, this is exactly what we learned with Spotify, too. The more data we're able to gather, the better predictions we're able to give you about what song to play
[00:14:29] next. And so this is exactly the the same thing that you now need to do in health care, but obviously it's across multiple modalities and now across longitudinal data sets, as well. >> Is there evidence today that some of this early observational data can affect ultimate health outcomes? I mean, I can see this working for metabolic conditions, things related like exercise depletion rates and blood sugar and sleep, but ultimately the correction
[00:14:59] there is typically diet, exercise. What are some other examples of major diseases that we can kind of identify ahead of the curve, course correct, >> And maybe just explaining what Nico is for people who don't know. >> Yeah, yeah. Maybe I'll start there, and then we can get into it. So in a very simple way, the experience of Nico today and in Gen 2 is it's $499. It is a reinvented healthcare experience from the ground up. Vertically integrated, we
[00:15:31] do everything from building our own facilities to having our own nurses and doctors on staff to building our own diagnostic equipment and doing everything on our own on the software side. So it's it's it's really kind of an end-to-end solution that we've designed from the ground up. And we designed it with the goal of creating the most valuable hour you can invest in your health. That's the mission that we have
[00:15:55] and that's what we're coming to work to do you know every day of the the the every every day really at work. The experience is really you come in. The first thing you typically tend to do is that you draw blood from us. So we then measure 53 blood markers. You then go through our skin rig where we have a camera system takes over 6,000 super high-res images across your body where we index every mole and lesion and
[00:16:29] all of the possible rashes and rednesses you may have as well. That gets indexed. We then look at it into your heart and blood circulation. We look at grip strength, all the sort of traditional markers that we have very good scientific evidence are valuable indicator as you think about sort of health. Then at the end of this visit that lasts for about an hour, you get uninterrupted time with a clinician and you go through
[00:16:58] all of the results including the blood works during that hour. So you have a complete set where you can go through your values within that hour with your doctor and the doctor will answer any questions you may have, but you will also with that clinician sit down and go through results, um, know, about things you may even want to improve as well when it comes to your health. So, that's the that's the experience that we're launching with
[00:17:24] today, in New York, in the US, and obviously we'll we'll launch in many more places across the United States over the next coming months. >> And just the identification of things ahead of the curve. Cuz I I've heard of other There was a one medical, there was Forward. I mean, there were a few other kind of attempts at making these integrated centers where you go in and get preventative checkups with their own