[00:14:59] there is typically diet, exercise. What are some other examples of major diseases that we can kind of identify ahead of the curve, course correct, >> And maybe just explaining what Nico is for people who don't know. >> Yeah, yeah. Maybe I'll start there, and then we can get into it. So in a very simple way, the experience of Nico today and in Gen 2 is it's $499. It is a reinvented healthcare experience from the ground up. Vertically integrated, we
[00:15:31] do everything from building our own facilities to having our own nurses and doctors on staff to building our own diagnostic equipment and doing everything on our own on the software side. So it's it's it's really kind of an end-to-end solution that we've designed from the ground up. And we designed it with the goal of creating the most valuable hour you can invest in your health. That's the mission that we have
[00:15:55] and that's what we're coming to work to do you know every day of the the the every every day really at work. The experience is really you come in. The first thing you typically tend to do is that you draw blood from us. So we then measure 53 blood markers. You then go through our skin rig where we have a camera system takes over 6,000 super high-res images across your body where we index every mole and lesion and
[00:16:29] all of the possible rashes and rednesses you may have as well. That gets indexed. We then look at it into your heart and blood circulation. We look at grip strength, all the sort of traditional markers that we have very good scientific evidence are valuable indicator as you think about sort of health. Then at the end of this visit that lasts for about an hour, you get uninterrupted time with a clinician and you go through
[00:16:58] all of the results including the blood works during that hour. So you have a complete set where you can go through your values within that hour with your doctor and the doctor will answer any questions you may have, but you will also with that clinician sit down and go through results, um, know, about things you may even want to improve as well when it comes to your health. So, that's the that's the experience that we're launching with
[00:17:24] today, in New York, in the US, and obviously we'll we'll launch in many more places across the United States over the next coming months. >> And just the identification of things ahead of the curve. Cuz I I've heard of other There was a one medical, there was Forward. I mean, there were a few other kind of attempts at making these integrated centers where you go in and get preventative checkups with their own
[00:17:46] instrumentation and and I think I've heard the thesis a little bit before. What have you identified that maybe is novel, Daniel, that we that we haven't seen in the past? >> I think first and foremost, the important thing it to mention is as I mentioned, we started this in 2018. So, this company's been around for 8 years. We've done more than 100,000 scans already. So, we actually publish data every year. So, we've just published our
[00:18:09] third year data survey, where we go through the health outcomes that we have across our members. And around 1% of our members have a serious underlying medical situation that is undiagnosed that we discover. Um, so, you know, again, the the good news is many of our members are healthy and we're just talking about improving their current health status and as you correctly pointed out, a lot of that ends up coming around stress, around
[00:18:40] diet, around sleep, and those things. Um, but, um, the most encouraging thing we're finding out is we've done these studies for 3 years in a row is that the people with the worst health status are the ones that are improving the most. So, it turns out that this ability of of having a clear visual understanding of where you are in your health journey currently today and having a clinician that sits down with you explaining
[00:19:08] the the the situation and possible remedies to that is a huge um benefactor for getting people to start improving things around lifestyle. So, we've seen members that have gone from year where they've been smoking to not smoking as part of then having to do this NEKO and prioritizing their health. Um we've obviously seen people with severe medical uh underlying illnesses that have gone from discovering those
[00:19:34] and then treating them and having much better overall health um as a result. So, it's really kind of all across uh the basic. But I'll I'll give you a very concrete example. So, um take dermatology as a great example. The average person um at NEKO today has 950 moles. >> That's pretty crazy. The average person has 950 moles. >> Yes. >> That's insane. Some percentage you can't tell I guess is the punchline here. They're like not detectable by the human
[00:20:05] >> Uh well, if you really went through your skin, you'd you'd be surprised how many you'd find. I mean it's a big dispersion. Some have, you know, many, many thousands and some of them have >> Seems like a perfect AI application for AI, obviously. Yeah. >> Exactly. So, if you think about it across a normal uh doctor's visit, how likely is it that uh that doctor will check out all the 950 uh moles that you may have? It's not going to happen. So,
[00:20:30] normally what happens in a normal doctor visit would be you may say, "Look, uh I have a mole." Or the doctor sees, "Hey, let's take a look at that mole. It looks a little bit funky." And then they bring out their their tool where they inspect it. Um they usually these days have a software that checks against whether uh this mole take a camera across many different um frequencies to then discover both the the size of this mole, but also the
[00:20:59] texture of the mole and so on and so forth. We literally do that. Um and we first have an AI system that flag uh possible risk factors, and then we have a human clinician that then goes through and reviews those as well. And should we even at that point find something, we then have expert dermatologists on staff, multiple of them that then also reviews that results. So that's just one indicator of like what happens in one visit. But
[00:21:26] let's now presume the scenario that we'd have multiple visits. And maybe one year it's actually we don't discover anything. But because we've cataloged and indexed every single one, we can actually now in a longitudinal base look at them from one year to the next year. So it may be growing abnormally. These are things that if you think about it, even the best doctors in the world can't possibly remember how your mole may have
[00:21:52] looked like from one year to another. So again, back to your point, this is a perfect application of AI, right? But we look at this as like this is a perfect application of how health care should look like. It should seamlessly be both AI and amazing clinicians. Uh, in a great package experience. So that's essentially what we're trying to do with with Neouka. >> That's great. And are you actively running it as CEO, Daniel, or
[00:22:18] are you operating part-time? Yeah. >> No. So similar to Spotify these days where I have two great CEOs. I have an amazing co-founder and partner Yael Mar, who's really the brainchild of Neouka. And he's the one who's doing most of the work even though I'm sitting here and taking most of the credits at this point. But yeah, he is the real brain. >> Great. You know what I'm struck by? The cost of this is so cheap, $499.
[00:22:44] You also have Function Health and Superpower, two other great services, about 350, 400. They just do blood work. But if we look at the spending, right? Right now, it's health care number two. Social Security number one. And and fast, your favorite coming up is the interest payments, which I believe will overtake our health care spending. You could actually have folks come to this every year or every other year for four
[00:23:07] or oh every American four or eight percent of the cost of the total we spend on health care and I'm I'm curious is this something you expect people to do yearly or something every other year and what impact do you think an investment of every American getting this done every year or every other year or maybe every three years even which would be down to two percent of our budget what impact would that have on the forward
[00:23:32] looking budget and then the forward looking spend if you had and have you done those kind of calculations? >> Yeah I mean look uh we we obviously have a view uh but I think it's too early to say so I don't I don't want to sit here and say that we know conclusively what will happen but I think the the the what we do recommend our members is to try to do this on an annual basis and the way I kind of make this analogy is
[00:23:54] uh most of us today uh are trying to go to a dentist on a yearly basis. For some reason we don't do an annual health checkup most of us on an annual basis. So for me this this should be as as regular as going to the dentist or doing anything else like and it should be a an amazing experience. This should be uh you know again as I said what we're really doing as a mission here is is trying to create the most valuable
[00:24:22] hour you can invest in your health and and you know we know a lot of people are busy so we want to be brutally efficient with people's times. You can actually if you don't have any questions and you're just interested in really doing the test results you could probably get by in 30 40 minutes uh and and do it so we're not talking about a lot of time uh to do that and obviously uh $500 is still a lot of money for people but I do think
[00:24:47] it's a great investment if you can afford it um to do. >> I'm going all in. >> Starting business usually means a bunch of different services just to look legit. Not anymore. With Northwest Registered Agent, you get a complete business identity all in one place. A business address, domain, website, phone number, and more. With privacy protection built in from day one. Don't spend hundreds [music] or thousands on
[00:25:16] services you can get from Northwest for free. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/allinfree and start using free resources to build your business today. >> [music] >> That $500, you lose money on every visit or break even and then like there's some profit that comes from maybe the upsells. Take us through the economic model here and then how that will work with the insurance industrial complex as uh dysfunctional as it is here in
[00:25:46] America. >> Yeah. Well, uh so the benefit of of being vertically integrated is that we've been able to build um you know, everything ourselves, which means we can also cut costs uh in a pretty dramatic way. So, within that uh $500 a year, um we are um the unit economics are positive. And uh we have clinics today that are profitable that we're operating uh already today. So, so we think this is a good price point uh to enter in because
[00:26:17] it's a great value uh for people. Uh but because we do all the things ourselves, we're able to still make this um you know, economically viable for us to to create a great business and to be able to grow and invest in that business so that we can spread it to more places as well. >> So, Daniel, are you focused exclusively on this project? You have other stuff you're working on? >> I'm not exclusively focused on it, but
[00:26:40] it's obviously one of the things that are taking a lot of my time and rightfully so. It's one of the biggest problems in the world. Um but uh I'm still spending time with Spotify. I'm exec chair um there. Uh so, that's uh still you know, uh my baby. even though I'm not involved in it on everyday basis. And we have a few other companies with Prima Materia, which is company I I created together with Shaq that you just
[00:27:07] mentioned earlier. Where we're trying to really do you know, what I mentioned before, which is like how do we how do we pay it forward and >> [clears throat] >> kind of almost be like the greatest co-founder you could possibly find. That's that's what the ambition of Prima Materia. >> The healthcare thing really perplexes me. I kind of look at the the biggest issues for affordability for people in the US right now. It's, you know, buying
[00:27:32] a home, dealing with your educational costs, and then healthcare costs is one of the top three. I feel like we can solve education costs and we can solve home costs with certain market incentives that have been distorted. But healthcare is much more complex. As you look at the US system, beyond just kind of preventative care, the cost for servicing patients in a hospital, like why is it $15,000 to get stitches at an ER?
[00:28:04] You know, why is it $20,000 to get a drug that costs 30 bucks to make? You know, why when the doctor's making 200 grand a year does the doctor seeing me for 8 minutes cost my insurance company $6,000? I mean, what is going on from your view that extends beyond like getting in front of all of the catch-up problems and so on. But what's structurally going on with the healthcare system in the US? And if you were emperor of the US for a
[00:28:32] day, and you got to say you could do anything you wanted, what are the top kind of three things that we're missing that maybe Neko doesn't necessarily address today, but are kind of things that you would recommend we fix? >> Well, I mean, again, I'm I'm definitely not an expert on the US health care system. But for me it is like the show me the outcome, I'll show you the incentive. Um it's it's one of those classical
[00:28:54] problems, and if you really really think about it at the moment, the entire system uh is predicated on and and the healthcare system was built around a time when we were dealing with the um infectious disease. That was how the healthcare system was built uh and and dealt with. So, all the incentives are really around that, which means we're fixing you acutely when there's mass of amounts of symptoms. So, uh where we
[00:29:18] have to go is we have to go to the healthcare system being preventative. That means it has to be way more long-term today. So, I'll I'll just mention one of the problems that exist is uh because normally your healthcare is tied to your employment in in one shape or form, and because the average uh tenure of your employment is not that very long, it means that you may have only 2 3 years uh at one employer, um and then you switch. And when you
[00:29:43] switch, you switch insurers, too. So, one of the questions then, if you're that insurer, should you invest in something where the payback time may be 10 or 15 or 20 years um to do that? Uh those are just some of those sort of incentive things like how do we how do we look at the ROI of some investments that may be 10, 15, 20 years into the future, and who takes those investments? These are not easy um things to answer, and I don't claim to
[00:30:12] have all the answers to them, but one of the things we're trying to do with that is we're just trying to bring the cost down so that the ROI doesn't have to be that we we have to invest or the insurance industry have to invest or employers have to invest millions of dollars speculatively hoping to get it back in 20 years' time with very little data. So, our view is like if if we lower it so it may may not be a million
[00:30:37] dollars, it may be you know, I make it up, tens of thousands of dollars, um even if that payback time was 10 or 20 years, I I I think that there would be a higher propensity and likelihood for a pickup on that. And then the second thing we're trying to do, obviously, is we're trying to add more data uh to the system. And if we had more data, then uh it's much more likely with these multimodal longitudinal data
[00:31:00] sets to be able to kind of actually see, well, what's the efficacy of the these things over time. This is also part of the reason, by the way, why we are investing in uh in in releasing our data every year of what we're finding um so that people can see, okay, well, what happens um both on an aggregate NEKO population, which is also super cool because normally in healthcare systems, you they're very country-specific.
[00:31:27] Right? Like and and so this is one of the few healthcare companies that are are it's not global, but at least multi-country systems straight away. Um, so that's also super interesting. Like, what are we finding in the UK that may or may may be similar or dissimilar to the US. That's going to be super fascinating. >> find between Stockholm and the UK? I mean, I can take some guesses, but I'm guessing people in Sweden were much more fit and in the UK,
[00:31:54] you probably had more cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Yeah, and those are the two, I believe, you tell me if I'm right, Frieburg, aren't those like the two biggest uh spends in terms of healthcare spending? Is I think diabetes is number one. I could be wrong, but cardiovascular diabetes seems to be the big two. So, what did you learn between the two populations? >> Well, I I I mean, it's really early and
[00:32:15] it's still on relatively small base. It's 100,000 scans, as I mentioned before. Um, but I I so I I don't know that I think we're ready to speak about sort of population-level um health outcomes. But as we grow in NEKO, I I think we will. And and that's going to be super cool. And then, you know, we're we're already today doing um lots of clinical trials. We've done four already. We have two underway. We have another four we're