[01:11:42] blue, etc. How do you respond to that concern and push back? Put the humanitarian piece aside, but that the reason the border and every Democrat I ask about this cannot answer the question, why was the border opened? Was it to lower labor costs? Was there some other reason that we did it? Was it to increase the voting base? I mean, what was the motivation and how do we address the response that's going to come for
[01:12:03] the many years ahead from a Republican party that's going to have issue with this? >> So, my sense growing up in an in an a town that historically has probably been about a third undocumented is that the primary incentive for the parties to not solve this problem is that a lot of people became very wealthy. A lot of industries did very well by having access to lowcost abundant labor and plenty of the business interests that did really well
[01:12:31] in a construction and other otherwise I mean historically this would have been say meat the meat packing industry right um they're donors to the Republican party. So I think both sides have been complicit. I think the back to incentives, I think Democrats and Republicans have played to their base and actually been politically incentivized to not solve the problem. And as a pragmatic moderate, my approach is to say you're both wrong, but there's
[01:12:58] something true in what you're both saying. Republicans are right that we should be able we should know who and what comes in and out of the country. We should have a secure border and we should take away any incentive for people to come here illegally, especially in a moment where uh we've got a fentanyl crisis. We've got international terrorism. We've got nukes that are getting smaller and smaller. We should have border security. Absolutely.
[01:13:24] If you're not here lawfully and you're committing serious and violent crime, deportation is the is the minimum expectation of what should happen. So, let's do that. But I just I think both parties have been complicit. We can sit around and say who wins electorally or economically. We can play that game and continue to have this incredibly divisive and unproductive situation where millions of people are living in
[01:13:47] fear, living in the shadows, or we can fix it. And when I say legal status, maybe that legal status doesn't come with a with a right to vote. Maybe it's a green card. I mean, I'm I'm for compromise and problem solving and moving the country forward. Both sides are going to have to give if we're going to solve this problem. >> I think that's the best idea possible for how to solve this, which is a path to residents without a path to voting.
[01:14:12] And that that could solve everyone's concerns. And and lastly, I just want you to compare and contrast your Democrat opponents, Swallwell, Styer, Porter. Let's just do those three. Give me a sense on your view on each of the three of them. Well, look, I I've I've been in enough debates with them now to understand that those three other leading Democratic candidates are vying for the same lane. It is the more of the
[01:14:40] same lane. It's a platform that says that the answer to our problems is more revenue. It's revenue, revenue, revenue as Representative Swall's top three goals. And uh look, we need to think differently. What I'm offering is an approach that's been working in Northern California's largest city. I call it getting back to basics. It's focusing on fewer things, the things that are most foundational to opportunity and quality
[01:15:10] of life for everyone. It's being humble about what government can actually do, not thinking that the answer to every problem is more revenue and another government program. It's being radically more transparent and accountable about how we spend dollars and rooting everything in results or or measurable outcomes and just bringing a a new uh politics of pragmatism as an antidote to this incredibly destructive populism
[01:15:36] we're seeing on the right and the left that really risks the the democratic lowercase d democratic project of this country. And I just I think that California has throughout its history been the the innovative state that has led the way and changed the world. And I am hopeful that Californians are ready for a different kind of politics that focuses on problem solving. I jumped in this race because all of the other
[01:16:03] candidates across the spectrum had already been in for a year and uh I didn't hear anyone talking speaking honestly about our problems and how to solve them. And I thought that I had a unique voice in this race and we're seeing that. I It's a short runway, but as I travel around the state, go to, you know, see the sewage crisis in the in the Tijuana River on the border that shut down all the beaches down there,
[01:16:26] walk Altadena or go through the Tenderloin in San Francisco, people are are responding because all they really want is for their tax dollars to be used responsibly. They want their government to work. They want their life to get better when they send so much of their money to their government. And that's my that's my commitment. >> Mayor Matt Mayan, thank you for being here with me today on Allin. Really appreciate the time and good luck in the
[01:16:51] in the governor's race. >> Thanks, David. I enjoyed it. >> N I'm going all in.