[00:00:00] Matt Nahm, welcome to Allin. >> Thanks, David. I have no idea who you are. Who are you? I mean, you're a guy who kind of popped up running for governor of California last minute. How'd that come about? And who is Matt Mayan? >> Well, David, like everybody, I'm frustrated with a state that keeps spending more and seemingly getting less, which is why I jumped in. But to back up, I grew up in a little farming town here in California, a town called
[00:00:23] Watsonville, where your strawberries come from. Home >> I do work in Watsonville. >> Frisco berries. You know it well. >> I got green houses. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. working-class family. Mom was a teacher, dad was a letter carrier. My lucky break in life was getting into a great college prep high school on a work study scholarship. I took buses about two hours each way. Worked my way through high school and college and uh
[00:00:43] came back as a public school teacher through the Teach for America program. Always was very community oriented, was interested in politics, wanted to know how to make our city, our world a better place. ended up in the tech sector and spent about a decade building civic tech tools to help people navigate their democracy. >> What did you build? >> I was involved with an early Facebook application called Causes and then went
[00:01:05] on to start a platform called Brigade that was sort of like LinkedIn for voters. And the whole premise was to build grassroots bottomup power by connecting voters around issues they're passionate about, outcomes they want to see, and help them organize to hold their elected officials accountable. After about a decade in the civic tech space, our company was acquired. I decided to run for city council, and I went out and knocked on 10,000 doors,
[00:01:31] got yelled at for a lot of things that I wasn't necessarily responsible for, but I got a real feel for the common sense of the residents of California who would ask questions like, &quot;If I'm paying $20,000 a year in property taxes, why haven't my local roads been paved in the last 15 years?&quot; And I thought that made a lot of sense. So, I went to city hall to try to find out >> how dysfunctional is California and how
[00:01:54] did it get this way. >> Pretty bad. I'm really worried, which is why I jumped in. I think the state is heading toward an inflection point past which there there may be no return. We have increased spending in state government by 75%. To put that in perspective, that's $150 billion more this year than six years ago. And as far as I can tell, none of the outcomes have gotten better. Never mind 75% better. Many of them are flat or down over the
[00:02:22] same time period. So there is a real lack of accountability in government. We don't have a money problem in Sacramento. We have an incentives problem. We have a structure that allows us to keep shoveling more money into things that aren't working. Just take highspeed rail. If a startup took 20 years, spent $14 billion, and didn't deliver a product, people would have been fired a long time ago. And we're just not seeing that level of
[00:02:49] accountability in our state government. >> Is this theft? Where does the money go? $14 billion. Who has that $14 billion today? It's contractors. It's lawyers. Some of it has gone into actually building the project. But belatedly, what happens in California and the reason we can't build, we can't do big things anymore, is that we've got endless process, years of environmental review, the most latigious environment
[00:03:15] imaginable. Anybody can sue under SQA. You don't even have to be a resident of California to sue under SQUA. And so, you just get years of litigation, bureaucracy, when it comes to housing. Just to slightly switch topics, the fees that cities can assess, one-time fees can add 20% to the cost of a project. So, we've just we've bureaucratized the state to the point where it's total paralysis. We can keep spending more and more and not
[00:03:40] getting anything for it. It's like I'm trying to understand as a citizen and a taxpayer, I pay a 53% tax rate living in California. I pay my federal tax and my temporary California tax, which I've been temporarily paying for 11 years, and I'm paying 53 cents of every dollar I earn to the state and to the federal government. I'm like, where'd my money go? It's such a mind-boggling number. Pick the highspeed rail project alone.
[00:04:04] $14 billion >> spent. >> Spent. We don't have a rail. We don't have anything. Is it lawyers that made $14 billion? You mentioned contractors. like is this just like there's a whole bunch of people that are all making 20 30 grand and it all adds up to 14 billion like just help me understand where my money went. So on that project specifically and I haven't done the line item by line item analysis to be totally
[00:04:29] clear but you have years of consultants doing environmental reviews and and doing all of these studies and reports of of the impacts it might have. So tons of consultants you have the cost of litigation. You have an entire cottage industry of people doing design and studies and reports and managing litigation and buying right ofway and managing community engagement processes and we just we take years to do to do
[00:04:59] anything and so it just gets vacuumed up into this sea of little groups of things. So there isn't like one big thief like the grandmaster thief of California that's taking all the money and then it's just like the dysfunction is just like everyone's getting a little piece of >> my sense I mean let's be clear there is fraud there has been fraud very well documented in California and other areas during the last 5 years or so roughly
[00:05:23] during the pandemic unemployment claims in California that were fraudulent totaled over $30 billion that is well documented there's emerging research right Now that shows that there are hundreds if not thousands of hospice providers who may or may not exist. I mean we're just getting this information now. This is very real time investigative journalism. So there's fraud I think by an order of magnitude. There's even something bigger here which
[00:05:52] is which is waste and inefficiency is a system where you just keep incrementally growing headcount, growing the size of programs, growing the grants that we give out to nonprofits. And we're funding and managing around process, not outcomes. And I've tried to approach it very differently in San Jose. I think it's why without raising taxes, in fact, our revenue has actually slowed a bit the last couple of years just because
[00:06:21] the economy is cyclical, real estate is struggling. We're very dependent on local property taxes. But without raising taxes, we have dramatically changed the outcomes we're getting. We have led the state in reducing crime and become the safest big city in the country. We've reduced unsheltered homelessness, meaning people living outside in tents and vehicles, by about a third in the last few years. We've unblocked housing uh production. We're
[00:06:45] seeing thousands of new homes under construction. In all of those cases, we had to change existing process that was in the way, reduce fees, and cut funding for programs that weren't delivering so that we could fund other solutions that were more efficient. >> Well, let me also ask about legislation. If you look at Washington DC, we have our nation's Congress, the House and the Senate, and there's a Republicans and
[00:07:09] there's Democrats, and they fight. And they fight so much they don't get anything done, which by the way may be a good thing because in California, the legislature passes hundreds and hundreds of bills a year, and they all um come from one party, the Democrat party. Gavin Newsome on average vetos 15 to 20% of these bills every year which says something but maybe you can just explain a little bit your view on how are all
[00:07:38] these laws getting passed in California how are these how does the legislature in Sacramento where you're vying for a seat to have the right to veto and the right to push back how are they making decisions and what's motivating the California state legislature >> yeah and I I would just to be clear as governor veto even more of these bills because there's a a total lack of accountability. And I think too many of
[00:07:59] our legislators think that their measure of success is how many bills they can write, get to the governor, and ultimately get signed. What you see is you actually read what these bills do. They generally just add more cost and more process. And what the legislature needs to be told by our next governor is that we're not going to fund failure. We're going to publicly set goals. We're going to measure the performance of
[00:08:25] every dollar we spend. We're going to audit the heck out of existing programs. Right now, 75% of the audit recommendations from the state auditor never get implemented. So, there's just there isn't a feedback loop with the public or or an accountability for the outcome. There is a lot of performative politics, a lot of discussion of how much good we're trying to do, how we're trying to be responsive to everyone. We
[00:08:51] have a tendency, particularly in the Democratic party, to want to be empathetic and tell everyone that we're working on everything. We try to be everything to everyone all at once rather than very strategically saying some things matter more than others. The high cost of housing, the high cost of energy, the quality of our public schools, the safety in our neighborhoods. These are the things people care about and think that they
[00:09:13] should be getting when they pay taxes. But despite increasing spending in the state by 75%, none of those outcomes have actually gotten better. Some have gotten worse. >> The irony is that sometimes it may be the case, and I think it's very often the case that less government solves the problem better than more government. Trying to do more to create housing may make housing more expensive. Sounds ironic. Trying to do more to make
[00:09:36] education accessible makes education more expensive. The more government gets involved, the more prices seem to skyrocket. How do you get over that with all the interested groups that are getting themselves elected in the California state legislature by saying, &quot;I'm going to do more. I'm going to do more. I'm going to do more.&quot; Because that's how you get elected. How are you possibly going to come in and say, &quot;We
[00:09:56] should do less, and that's how we're going to fix some of this stuff.&quot; >> Yeah. Well, certainly, if you're if you're in a hole, don't keep digging. And sadly, one of my opponents in this race, Eric Swallwell, just in a debate, he said it a couple times now in debates. When asked what his top three, we were all asked what are our top three priorities for the state, said revenue, revenue, revenue. And to me, that is
[00:10:15] just that is a mindset that doesn't get what has broken down in the state. You're absolutely right. As Democrats, we have to own the outcomes we're getting in this state. And for too long, our reflexive answer has been, we need more revenue. if we just have more money, we'll solve this problem. I I just don't believe that. And and I say that as the only current executive in this race. I'm the mayor of the largest
[00:10:40] city in Northern California, San Jose. And because of a quirk of history, we were built as a bedroom community for the job centers just north of us. We actually have significantly lower revenue per capita than many other cities. We're not a job center. And so with Prop 13, our tax revenue goes up more slowly and it is smaller. Our revenue is about a third less than some of our neighboring cities. And we're delivering huge increases in sheltering
[00:11:07] people, getting housing built, reducing crime by thinking differently. But it all starts with being willing to set a goal publicly and allow the public to hold you accountable for spending dollars in a way that actually achieves outcomes. And that sounds so simple. I know most of your audience, I've been listening for years, are in the private sector and it almost seems so obvious that why would you even need to say it?
[00:11:31] But the truth is, as elected officials, we almost never set public goals where we can actually be held accountable. Heaven forbid in your next election you might get called out for not actually reducing homelessness or reducing crime or getting housing built. And instead, to your point, we pass bill after bill showing that we're doing something. And half the time, with the the law of unintended consequences, we make it
[00:11:53] slower and more expensive to do the very thing that we want. >> Right. Well, let's talk about maybe some of the competing interests that want to get capital, that want to pull capital through the government for their base, and that would be labor unions. They're a very powerful lobbying coordination set of groups in California. They have significant influence over who gets elected in the legislature, who gets
[00:12:17] elected in city mayor's races, and who gets elected in the governor's seat. Tell me your view on the role that labor unions play in California politics today and some of this dysfunction in government and unaccountability in spending because I know that this might be a very controversial topic to talk about because you don't want to piss off the labor unions, but I'd love to hear your your candid views on their role.
[00:12:40] Yeah, let me start by saying I am not afraid to take on any organized interest. And it is not just labor though. Let's talk about the role of public sector unions. It's not just labor that is highly organized. You have trade associations. You have the doctors and the dentists. You have the public sector unions. You have the oil and gas industry. You fi tech has actually been late to the party. Tech is starting to
[00:13:04] organize. So the the way that I look at the landscape in Sacramento, and I think it's largely true in Washington as well, is you have wellresourced, highly organized, professional advocacy, lobbying, and political operations that essentially defend the status quo. And you are absolutely right that the single biggest spender in Sacramento when it comes to advocacy, lobbying, and elections is organized labor and
[00:13:31] particularly public sector unions. Now, I don't think it's a monolith. I have a great relationship with our public sector unions. Our building trades want to see the economy grow. So, u many unions are very pragmatic and all of them are doing what they're supposed to be doing. It's spineless politicians who cave to their aggressive demands who are the the root cause of the problem here. So, when the teachers union organizes
[00:13:53] and says, &quot;We don't want more accountability. We don't want to be told to use evidence-based curriculum. We don't want more technology in the classroom.&quot; whatever it is they may advocate for uh presumably on behalf of or at least what they perceive to be the interests of their members. It's our elected officials who need to step up and say, &quot;Well, for the good of the community, we're going to push you on
[00:14:16] that. We're not just going to give you a pass. We're not just going to veto that legislation or stay quiet when we know that for what we're spending, we aren't getting what we should be.&quot; We've gotten to the point where Mississippi and Louisiana are doing a better job of helping low-income kids get on grade level for reading than we are in the very well-resourced, very progressive state of California. That is a function
[00:14:40] of a system that is more responsive to the highly organized interests than the people we're elected to serve. >> Right? That's the fundamental dysfunction. U some see it as corruption, and I don't think that's too strong of a word. I don't mean it in the narrow sense of anyone breaking the law or or um you know stealing money but but the system has become again back to the core point here that the incentives are
[00:15:06] all wrong. The incentive for an elected official is to cater to highly organized interests who disproportionately spend money in elections. Follow what's happening up in the legislature. Draft the bill language. Draft the friendly amendments. get legislators to do their bidding. And I just I'm running against the system because it doesn't matter if you're a Democrat, a Republican, an independent. We need a high functioning
[00:15:33] government that delivers lower housing costs, lower energy costs, better schools, safer neighborhoods, an end to street homelessness. We have the resources to do it. What we haven't had is the political will and accountability to do it. And I don't think that's a partisan point. And frankly, if the Democratic Party doesn't start to wake up and be more responsive to the needs of our constituents and deliver with the
[00:15:58] resources we've got, we're going to see the pendulum swing all the way the other way and you're going to see a MAGA-like movement happen here in California. >> If I look at California, I can understand we're not solving certain problems, but what I'm trying to grock is how did some of these problems become the worst in the nation? So there are statistics and you can debate per capita statistics versus absolute number of
[00:16:20] people but number one in poverty, number one in unemployment, nearly half the nation's homeless live in California. Yeah. >> How did California go from being bad and not solving these problems to making them worse? >> Well, I think you my my grandmother used to always say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. And I do think generally speaking, people have had good intentions but have been unwilling to look at data and react when