[00:14:16] that. We're not just going to give you a pass. We're not just going to veto that legislation or stay quiet when we know that for what we're spending, we aren't getting what we should be.&quot; We've gotten to the point where Mississippi and Louisiana are doing a better job of helping low-income kids get on grade level for reading than we are in the very well-resourced, very progressive state of California. That is a function
[00:14:40] of a system that is more responsive to the highly organized interests than the people we're elected to serve. >> Right? That's the fundamental dysfunction. U some see it as corruption, and I don't think that's too strong of a word. I don't mean it in the narrow sense of anyone breaking the law or or um you know stealing money but but the system has become again back to the core point here that the incentives are
[00:15:06] all wrong. The incentive for an elected official is to cater to highly organized interests who disproportionately spend money in elections. Follow what's happening up in the legislature. Draft the bill language. Draft the friendly amendments. get legislators to do their bidding. And I just I'm running against the system because it doesn't matter if you're a Democrat, a Republican, an independent. We need a high functioning
[00:15:33] government that delivers lower housing costs, lower energy costs, better schools, safer neighborhoods, an end to street homelessness. We have the resources to do it. What we haven't had is the political will and accountability to do it. And I don't think that's a partisan point. And frankly, if the Democratic Party doesn't start to wake up and be more responsive to the needs of our constituents and deliver with the
[00:15:58] resources we've got, we're going to see the pendulum swing all the way the other way and you're going to see a MAGA-like movement happen here in California. >> If I look at California, I can understand we're not solving certain problems, but what I'm trying to grock is how did some of these problems become the worst in the nation? So there are statistics and you can debate per capita statistics versus absolute number of
[00:16:20] people but number one in poverty, number one in unemployment, nearly half the nation's homeless live in California. Yeah. >> How did California go from being bad and not solving these problems to making them worse? >> Well, I think you my my grandmother used to always say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. And I do think generally speaking, people have had good intentions but have been unwilling to look at data and react when
[00:16:47] the things that they're championing aren't working. On homelessness, we've well, first of all, we've broken the housing market, which we should talk about as its own issue. We've also been incredibly lax when it comes to dealing with cycles of addiction and mental illness. We've sort of diluted ourselves into thinking that leaving someone to choose to live however they'd like, even if that means suffering in misery on the
[00:17:13] streets and ultimately dying of an overdose is somehow more important than intervening and saving their life. And that's how we've ended up in this horrific situation that frankly has been under reportported over the last decade. We've had 50,000 people die on our streets in California, about half from overdose and suicide. These are people with deep behavioral health issues where we're kind of just watching them
[00:17:36] deteriorate and die because we're so precious about protecting civil liberties may also be an excuse for not spending money in new ways. In San Jose, we had to move away from spending a million dollars a door to build a brand new apartment to get someone off the streets and pivot to buying sleeping cabins that can be deployed in small communities on publicly owned land hooked up to utilities. all-in cost of $85,000 a unit. We've added over 2,000
[00:18:03] shelter beds in my first three years as mayor and led the state in reducing unsheltered homelessness. But we had to overcome an incredible amount of opposition from advocates, affordable housing developers, and and you know, much of it well intended, maybe some of it self-interested, but we either are going to be committed to solving the problem or we're going to cave to highly organized interests or a progressive
[00:18:29] ideology that needs to be willing to revise itself when when its ideas and practice aren't working. >> Yeah. I mean, it just feels some of the policies are just crazy. I always commented on the managed alcohol program for homeless in San Francisco. They give away free alcohol to alcohol addicted unhoused people. And I can't imagine that that disincentivizes people to >> No. >> Right. It's it's like you go to you go
[00:18:53] to San Francisco, you get needles, you get free alcohol. I mean, you get these things. So, it incentivizes people to to go to go to San Francisco. The whole thing just seemed absolutely nuts to me. Let's get into the housing question. I mean, what is the core of the housing affordability problem in California? Is it that we don't have enough houses? Because I see a lot of homes for lease, a lot of houses for sale, a lot of
[00:19:14] houses for rent, or is it that we have regulation that makes it hard to maintain a house and it's expensive? Or is there something else going on that's making housing unaffordable in California? Like, what's the the core here? >> Look, I I think it's fundamentally a supply problem. We've seen most recently in Austin. We saw in Seattle, we've seen dozens of markets around the country that when we remove barriers to the
[00:19:40] market investing in housing to meet growing demand, you slow down cost increases. It's economics 101. Part of our challenge is that we've also made it impossible to build affordably. So, part of the challenge was zoning, high fees, all of the things government imposes that block housing from getting built. But we also have a building code that's incredibly cumbersome. We I mentioned litigation earlier when it came to
[00:20:06] highspeed rail. Same thing is true for housing. We're not building condos in California, partly because construction defect liability allows a trial lawyer to come in in year nine of a project and if they see that the paint is starting to bubble, they'll file a suit and they they care about the fees. Their incentive is to generate fees. And we've created a legal framework that allows them to do that. And if you try to
[00:20:33] change it, the another highly organized interest in Sacramento, the trial lawyers will push back on that. >> I think this is so important. People don't understand how expensive. Someone told me it was like a sizable percentage of GDP in the United States is spent on litigation and trial lawyers and that they are the largest donor in certain uh state elections all over the country to try and create a legal framework that
[00:20:59] allows them to pursue litigation and earn significant fees. I mean, it's a multi multi multi-billion dollar industry. >> That's right. And California is very much at one end of the spectrum. I I mean, I've talked to municipal leaders in cities that are settling at such a high amount for a trip and fall that now they can't afford to maintain the rest of the sidewalks in the city for the next few years. So, they're going to
[00:21:20] have more trip and fall cases. We are going to or at risk of allowing travelers to sue the state into oblivion. So, that is a it is a major issue. And on condos, it may seem like a peripheral issue, but traditionally that has been how young people get some equity in society, become a homeowner for the first time and build that nest egg to eventually perhaps trade up into a town home or a single family home. We've essentially taken that rung of the
[00:21:47] ladder away by making it cost prohibitive to build. You good luck getting financing or insurance to build a new condo building in California right now? >> Right. Is it fair to say we have a regulation crisis, not a housing crisis in California? I mean, is there a way to kind of reframe this? I >> I think that's fair. I think regulation, bureaucracy, a a set of codes and laws that don't work for people and work for
[00:22:10] the special interests in Sacramento. >> I interviewed this guy, Adam Corolla. You know him? The >> I know of him. I know. >> Yeah. Dr. Drew, what was the term he Oh, very inappropriate. He called it gynofascism. He said that all of the regulatory is a safety thing and it's like a very feminine safety protective kind of origin in a lot of the regulations that have been passed that make it impossible. Everything's about
[00:22:32] safety and more regulation, more regulation, more regulation and as a result you can't get anything done and the lawyers show up and everything gets sued. What's the right way to think about the origin? Cuz his argument is that there's a mindset of safety and protectionism that's driven this. Is it just the trial lawyers or like why does someone keep passing? Why do the legislators keep passing laws over and
[00:22:52] over and layers and layers and layers and layers that make it impossible to build and make it super expensive to maintain because otherwise you'll get sued. >> Yeah. Look, I I would take the the gender content out of it. But I think the the deeper point that we suffer from safety, it's actually easier to add one more rule, one more process. I see this play out every day with our city council at the local level and I think it's even
[00:23:18] a greater temptation at the state level where you're not able to point to a concrete service that you're delivering. So much of the implementation happens at the local level. Every time there is a negative story about something bad happening in the world, there is an impulse for a legislator to say, &quot;Let's create a new rule. We could always be a little bit safer. let's let's add another check, another balance, another
[00:23:42] process, another rule, another fee, whatever it is. And the reason for that in my view is that we have not created an incentive structure in government to reward actual performance and outcomes. And so we are by default rewarding the performiveness of showing that we're doing a lot of activity without a lot of impact. And I just I think that we have to help voters be smarter about analyzing what their elected officials
[00:24:15] are doing and whether or not it's working. That's why I want to be held accountable. I came into office running on dashboards. I mean, I put up public-f facing dashboards and said, &quot;Here's our baseline. Here's how we compare to others. Here's the goal we're setting. We're going to reduce homelessness by 10% year-over-year. We're going to reduce crime. We're going to remove barriers and get housing built. We're
[00:24:35] going to speed up permit reviews. I want to be held publicly accountable because I would rather, frankly, have a feedback loop with the people whose doors I knocked on than whichever group doesn't like that we're trying to change something. >> What's your metric for being governor of California as it relates to housing? What's the dashboard you're going to put up and what's your goal? >> So, I think that the the ultimate
[00:24:55] outcome has to be that we're building more housing, but that we're building it more affordably. We have to pull the cost out of building because as long as the state of Colorado can build the exact same home at half the cost of what it what it is in the Bay Area, we're never going to be able to compete. So, I want to see more housing in absolute terms get built. We need to start moving in a better direction. We've gone from
[00:25:16] about 100,000 units a year to about 80,000 a year. You go farther back, it was 150,000 a year. >> What do you want what do you want to get to in your term? >> I think we need to get we need to get well over a h 100,000. I think the right way to think about it though is it's really a ratio with jobs. For every two jobs an economy creates, you need at least one home. Part of the reason the Bay Area and particularly Silicon Valley
[00:25:37] is so unaffordable for working people and we're seeing displacement of working families is that over the last 20 years, this incredible economy here, the engine of of innovation for our country and really the world has created about eight jobs for every one new home we've built. That is a completely unsustainable ratio. So, I'm a little hesitant to come out and say we're going to build 10 million homes. I think it's a ratio
[00:26:01] thing. It's a it's a rate of change. We need to be building more year-over-year. But importantly, we need to pull back the fees, the long timelines, the overly complicated building codes. >> So, each of those get a metric. >> Yeah, each of those get a metric because ultimately the per square foot cost of building needs to go down. >> What does that need to get to? Where is it today? Where does it need to get to?
[00:26:20] >> Oh, it varies dramatically by product type and market. So I don't I mean it's a good question. I think I think we should we should lay that out. But I just visited a modular construction f factory factory built housing. They can bring down the cost per unit by 20% speed up overall project timelines by up to 50% by just industrializing the production of housing. So we need to pull the cost down. We should be able to
[00:26:45] drop the cost on a per square foot basis by at least a third with actions that are within our control as regulators. If you become governor, you're going to be fighting against a legislature that's got all of the various vested interests tied up in keeping this from happening. How do you take action without partnership with the legislature? Cuz what I think might be very hard is again to wind things back that all these
[00:27:08] incentive systems have been created to to deliver. >> Yeah. >> Are there emergency powers or action you can take as governor that can just say, you know what, I'm going to fix this in a year or do you have to work with the legislature to solve these problems? a bit of both. I mean, the the governor has certain levers that are very powerful driving the budget process. There's the veto, the bully pulpit, just kind of naming and shaming is really
[00:27:30] powerful. Executive orders, the the appointments. I mean, the governor appoints 3,000 people who run all of these commissions that have incredible discretion over how to implement regulations. But there's no doubt that ultimately you need the legislative branch to to change. And I think that a lot of Democratic legislators, many of whom I know personally in private, will admit that things are broken, that things aren't working. There just hasn't
[00:27:57] been that willingness publicly to name what is going on, say that the system's broken, the incentives are are completely backwards. I think, you know, as governor, I'd be in a position to change the conversation, help um either persuade existing legislators to think differently or elect different legislators. Do you think it's also because if they're public about it, they'll lose their donors and they'll lose their donor class that's supporting
[00:28:22] them? >> Well, it's hard to step out on a limb without knowing if you're going to have support for it. It is difficult to just go direct to voters in an environment where money talks. It's a very large state. Uh it's expensive to deliver a message. Social media has lowered barriers. That's part of my bet is that we can go straight to the voters with this message and get traction around around the truth around what it takes to
[00:28:45] actually solve our problems. Uh but it's it's you know I understand why people go with the sure the sure thing and it's it's not fun to be labeled. They will call you everything when you fight for change. You're a corporate sellout. You're um you're racist. You're whatever. I mean there's always some label that people will ascribe when you try to fight for change. But I try to stay laser focused on the real world
[00:29:11] outcomes. Housing costs, energy costs, quality of schools, public safety, the things that people care about in neighborhoods like the one I grew up in. That has to be the north star. >> Yeah. What causes homelessness? >> It's a big question. There a few things. I mean, one, you can't ignore our broken housing market because in places where housing is cheap and widely available, you can have high rates of addiction and
[00:29:33] mental illness and most people can remain indoors even um even with those challenges. You know, typically what happens if you if you actually look at it as a life cycle issue is someone who's already vulnerable for some reason. could be of their own choosing, could be circumstances, but job loss, health issues, addiction, mental illness, you know, domestic violence. There's a range of really awful things that happen to people and that people
[00:29:58] sometimes do to themselves. And in these circumstances, if the rent is $3,000 a month, you are just one medical bill, you know, layoff away from really having, you know, ending up in your car very quickly. and and people working people in California especially don't have a lot of savings. They don't have something they can fall back on. So the macro cost structure of California the highest housing costs second highest
[00:30:26] energy cost with the highest gas prices which dis disproportionately hurts working people. Um an educational system that is preparing far too few of our children for the jobs of the future. We can go through that list, but that is creating these conditions of of sort of vulnerability or fragility that means that people living on the edge are much more likely to end up in their car. But I would add that we have a massive