[00:28:22] them? >> Well, it's hard to step out on a limb without knowing if you're going to have support for it. It is difficult to just go direct to voters in an environment where money talks. It's a very large state. Uh it's expensive to deliver a message. Social media has lowered barriers. That's part of my bet is that we can go straight to the voters with this message and get traction around around the truth around what it takes to
[00:28:45] actually solve our problems. Uh but it's it's you know I understand why people go with the sure the sure thing and it's it's not fun to be labeled. They will call you everything when you fight for change. You're a corporate sellout. You're um you're racist. You're whatever. I mean there's always some label that people will ascribe when you try to fight for change. But I try to stay laser focused on the real world
[00:29:11] outcomes. Housing costs, energy costs, quality of schools, public safety, the things that people care about in neighborhoods like the one I grew up in. That has to be the north star. >> Yeah. What causes homelessness? >> It's a big question. There a few things. I mean, one, you can't ignore our broken housing market because in places where housing is cheap and widely available, you can have high rates of addiction and
[00:29:33] mental illness and most people can remain indoors even um even with those challenges. You know, typically what happens if you if you actually look at it as a life cycle issue is someone who's already vulnerable for some reason. could be of their own choosing, could be circumstances, but job loss, health issues, addiction, mental illness, you know, domestic violence. There's a range of really awful things that happen to people and that people
[00:29:58] sometimes do to themselves. And in these circumstances, if the rent is $3,000 a month, you are just one medical bill, you know, layoff away from really having, you know, ending up in your car very quickly. and and people working people in California especially don't have a lot of savings. They don't have something they can fall back on. So the macro cost structure of California the highest housing costs second highest
[00:30:26] energy cost with the highest gas prices which dis disproportionately hurts working people. Um an educational system that is preparing far too few of our children for the jobs of the future. We can go through that list, but that is creating these conditions of of sort of vulnerability or fragility that means that people living on the edge are much more likely to end up in their car. But I would add that we have a massive
[00:30:49] public policy failure. Not only did we break the housing production market, which is the macro challenge, but we haven't built shelter and treatment beds. So for folks for whom an addiction or mental health issue is the the thing that has them on the edge, we have far fewer beds than other states. And then when people do become homeless, it ought to be brief and it should not be outdoors. And yet we we lead the nation
[00:31:13] in unsheltered homelessness. Over 40% of the people living outside in tents in the entire country live in California, which is only about 12% of the country's population. We haven't built shelter. We haven't built treatment. We're not doing what we need to do to rapidly rehouse people, connect them to a case manager, give them tools to turn their lives around, and hold them accountable for turning their lives around.
[00:31:35] >> If there's mental illness, should they be committed to some facility to help them recover from their mental illness? >> Yes. In short, I I think you have to be able to involuntarily hold people for addiction treatment, mental health care. if they're repeat if someone is repeatedly refusing help, if they are harming the broader community, which is often the case, whether that's vandalism, retail theft. It's been a battle here in our
[00:32:01] downtown where windows are constantly being broken by people who clearly are suffering from serious addiction and mental health issues. I think we should give people opportunities to accept help. It needs to be dignified. They need to be alternatives to the streets. We've stood up over 2,000 indoor placements, interim housing placements, almost all individual rooms with doors that lock, giving people privacy. These are low barrier
[00:32:27] alternatives to the streets. Bring your partner, your pets, your possessions. We're really trying to meet people where they are. The good news, twothirds of people say yes. The bad news, the other third is so deep in the throws of addiction to substances like meth and fentanyl that they can't make a rational decision about their own self-care. I believe that that is that it is not compassionate or progressive to leave
[00:32:51] them to endlessly cycle between streets, emergency rooms, jails, and ultimately die of an overdose. I think we have a moral duty to intervene, help them detox and get connected to a counselor and give them a chance to turn their lives around. Drugs are coming from somewhere fueling this crisis. Can the governor address the drug crisis? Can the governor get drugs off the street, arrest drug dealers? Is that a federal
[00:33:16] issue? How do we resolve the fueling of fentinyl, methamphetamines, prescription painkillers, etc. that have made their way onto the street? >> It has to be all levels of government, all hands on deck. So much law enforcement is done at the local level. We have a police department with about a thousand officers out on the street enforcing local laws. They're on the front lines of this crisis as are our firefighters, social workers. Certainly
[00:33:39] having federal federal tools and um and and state u we have the National Guard, we have CHP, we have a variety of of tools here. What I do know though is that we can reduce demand by intervening in public drug use and getting people into treatment and holding them accountable for turning their lives around. If we get people into recovery, that's one more customer not available out on the streets to buy these
[00:34:07] dangerous products. >> And how many times do they cycle through before they have to be held more permanently? >> Well, I think it has to scale up over time. And with Prop 36, I was the first Democratic mayor in the state to come out in support of Prop 36. The rule of thumb there is on your third public drug offense, you can be given a choice between treatment and incarceration. And that's bringing a consequence to a
[00:34:28] decision that doesn't just affect you. We can talk about civil liberties, but when you are actively choosing not to engage in treatment, you are more often than not creating imposing real costs, real harm on the broader community. We've seen businesses shutter in our downtowns, parks where families can't play. So we >> It's direct and indirect. >> That's right. >> And I think a lot of people don't account for that, which is critical. I
[00:34:51] want to shift topics to energy costs. There's an Iran war going on. So there's an acute spike in energy gas prices in the state, but over the last number of years, California Governor Nuomo and the state legislature have pursued an effort to drive green energy policy in the state. California has a 70 cents per gallon roughly tax rate. The California price for gasoline this week is $5.50 compared to 350 in the rest of the
[00:35:18] country. Did we get it wrong? Should we have taken a different path in the state versus fighting for green, chasing Chevron out of the state. Chevron's now relocated to Houston. They're shutting down the largest refinery on the West Coast because of the policies and the the bureaucracy. And you know, how do we balance this climate change green interest? with the real hard cost for everyone on the price of living in the
[00:35:40] state. >> Yeah, I do think we've gotten our regulatory solution here approach wrong. I would reject the notion that it's either or. I don't think it has to be. I think innovation is the is the middle path, the way to do both. Look, Texas is providing dramatically cheaper power that is cleaner than California. You see places like China leaning heavily into solar, wind, storage, EVs. the the path is investment in innovation in
[00:36:08] infrastructure, a smarter grid. What we've done in California is is another classic case of well-intended regulations leading to massive unintended consequences. Let's just take the example of our refineries. The state has lost most of its refineries over the last decade because we have intentionally regulated them out of out of existence. And so what's actually happened is we still import oil and gas. We've just pushed refineries. We have
[00:36:40] the cleanest, best regulated refineries with some of the highest paying jobs in the sector. We pushed that out of state. Now we're importing the same amount of gas from thousands of miles away. It is dirtier. It has a bigger carbon footprint. We lost those good, high-paying jobs. We lost the tax base of those companies paying local taxes. It has been a hit on every level. And actually because climate and climate
[00:37:04] change is a global phenomenon, we we have not actually made the we've actually made the problem worse while hurting ourselves economically. So that's the opposite of what we need. We need win wins. We should be paying EV owners today in the middle of the day, strongly incentivizing them to charge their vehicles in the middle of the day when power is so cheap and abundant in California that we sometimes pay Arizona
[00:37:25] to take our excess solar and then have them plug in at night to power the grid and get through that roughly 5:00 p.m. to 900 p.m. evening peak where we've got to start firing up gas power plants because there just isn't enough power on the grid. So, we need to be smarter. We need to invest in innovation and infrastructure, not regulate energy sources out of state that we still rely upon. >> But it's hard. So now we've got the 70
[00:37:50] cents a gallon tax in California. The legislators passed a series of bills to to make that tax go up and up and up. Now they're talking about increasing it even further. >> It's the most regressive tax imaginable because it's even worse than a sales tax, which is already fairly regressive. But as you know, higher income, wealthier people have already adopted EVs. They're they're not paying this tax. It's working folks, particularly in
[00:38:13] towns like Watsonville where I grew up. I mean, when I was in high school, I had to go 50 miles one way for high school. My parents went 50 miles the other way for their jobs. And so, it disproportionately hurts working people. My proposal is that we to start temporarily suspend our gas tax to provide immediate relief to working families who are paying the price for a war that they didn't ask for and they're
[00:38:36] disproportionately paying the price. I would temporarily suspend it, but we have to be intellectually honest about this. It is our primary source of revenue for paving and maintaining roads and our transportation infrastructure. We will need to shift how we do this rather than being a gas tax. First of all, the general fund is up 75% in the last 6 years. So, I'm pretty confident that in a state that's spending $350
[00:39:03] billion, we can afford to pave our roads without punishing working families. But I also think over time, as EV adoption increases, we'll have to find a smarter way of charging a basic user fee so that people who use the roads pay to maintain them. One of the other big costs in California related to housing and related to this climate change question is the cost of insurance for your home. We had this massive wildfire that spread
[00:39:29] destroyed a large part of areas in Los Angeles last year and as a result many of the home insurance companies have left the state. I just lost coverage on my home because I live near a bunch of trees. So my house is deemed too risky to have coverage. And I'm fortunate in that I don't have a mortgage that I've got to deal with the loss of of insurance coverage. But this is becoming an increasing burden for the state of
[00:39:53] California because the states had to step in >> and create a bigger and bigger insurance pool that financially and accounting wise the state can't really afford. How do we solve this problem of the cost of homeowners insurance? What's the right structural solution here for either incentivizing the return of insurance companies creating an insurance pool that's well capitalized and can actually afford to make the payouts instead of
[00:40:14] needing to go to the federal government when there's a crisis and ask for a bailout? How do we fix this problem in California? I think there are a few components to the strategy going forward here. Uh number one, we have to rebuild the private marketplace. 90% of homeowners, maybe more, can be covered by private insurance affordably, and we have to rebuild that part of the market by bringing them back, allowing
[00:40:37] them to appropriately price risk, and creating more granularity. If you're willing, and you may not be, but if you're willing to remove those trees within 100 ft of your home, you should pay a lower premium. If you prefer to have the trees there, you should pay the higher premium. So more granular pricing, allowing appropriate pricing of risk is is just really important. Now, for the 5 to 10% of homes that are up in
[00:41:01] heav, you know, in the in the in the hills, heavily wooded areas where there's lots of vegetation, we'll have to have higher, first of all, when you build, there's a question of how much more we should be able to build out there. Probably not a lot. what materials you use, they need to be fire resistant and you'll have to pay much higher insurance just to cover the true cost of of the likelihood of a fire and
[00:41:24] the cost of replacement. The other piece of this though is the state has to take more ownership for vegetation management. We spend $8 in fire response and recovery for every $1 we spend on prevention. And there are plenty of urbanized areas that are at risk because they're proximate to dense vegetation that the state has not taken ownership for clearing. And yes, it should be in partnership with the federal government.
[00:41:50] If they're federal lands, we should hold the federal government accountable for doing it. But I just toured Altadena and Palisades, met with the homeowners there who are incredibly frustrated about the lack of rebuilding. No one is quarterbacking this. And if you go walk the palisades today, you will see once again vegetation that's 5t tall that hasn't been managed in an area where people are trying to rebuild their
[00:42:12] homes. So the state has to step up. As governor, I would create a a task force that just focuses on fixing the insurance market. And if the state will invest in vegetation management to reduce the risk of catastrophic loss, you're going to see premiums go down over the long term. I mean, I I think it's insane that the state sets rates and then tells the insurance companies how much to charge and assumes they're
[00:42:34] going to stick around and keep charging it. If they can't make money doing it, why not let the market decide? There's hundreds of insurance companies that if they were able to set their own rates and not have to have the state dictate the rate, they would compete for and price would come down. This idea that the state should be determining what companies should charge for anything is a problem. But fundamentally in the
[00:42:53] insurance markets, it's literally chased every insurer out of the state. I just don't understand like how this >> Yeah, these kinds of obvious don't work in practice as we've seen. And when I that's what I mean by saying we have to be able to appropriately price risk. Insurance companies need to be able to charge rates that reflect the true risk and cost. I think they should be strongly incentivized if not held
[00:43:16] accountable for allowing homeowners to adopt best practices and thereby reduce their premiums. And I think there's a subset of folks who may need to be on and pay into a public option of some kind because they just won't be covered by the market or perhaps they have to choose that based on where they live they won't have insurance. I I don't know. But I don't think you can force everybody else to pay exorbitant rates
[00:43:40] to ensure that we cover the last riskiest home that's going to be the most expensive to cover. >> Yeah. >> It's just it's an illogical setup. >> Well, look, let's shift to one of the other big liability questions in the state. It's the one I care not I wouldn't say the most, but it's one that I've observed may end up being a big driver for what's ahead for us. California's public employee retirement system. So, Kalpers and Calsters, they
[00:44:02] provide the retirement benefits to roughly 3 million California public workers. And there's roughly a trillion dollars of capital in those two investment funds that are meant to support those retirees. They've been making about 7% a year compared to the S&amp;P making 11% a year. And the current accounting estimates that they're going to be short by some estimates 250 to30 billion by other estimates as high as a
[00:44:26] trillion dollars in the years ahead in paying out the benefits that they're legally obligated to pay to public employees as they retire. And you can't just change those benefits. There's a state supreme court case that's made that known that you can't go in and rescend benefits that you've promised someone. So you are stuck with that liability. And because they're public entities, California's state taxpayer is