[00:42:34] going to stick around and keep charging it. If they can't make money doing it, why not let the market decide? There's hundreds of insurance companies that if they were able to set their own rates and not have to have the state dictate the rate, they would compete for and price would come down. This idea that the state should be determining what companies should charge for anything is a problem. But fundamentally in the
[00:42:53] insurance markets, it's literally chased every insurer out of the state. I just don't understand like how this >> Yeah, these kinds of obvious don't work in practice as we've seen. And when I that's what I mean by saying we have to be able to appropriately price risk. Insurance companies need to be able to charge rates that reflect the true risk and cost. I think they should be strongly incentivized if not held
[00:43:16] accountable for allowing homeowners to adopt best practices and thereby reduce their premiums. And I think there's a subset of folks who may need to be on and pay into a public option of some kind because they just won't be covered by the market or perhaps they have to choose that based on where they live they won't have insurance. I I don't know. But I don't think you can force everybody else to pay exorbitant rates
[00:43:40] to ensure that we cover the last riskiest home that's going to be the most expensive to cover. >> Yeah. >> It's just it's an illogical setup. >> Well, look, let's shift to one of the other big liability questions in the state. It's the one I care not I wouldn't say the most, but it's one that I've observed may end up being a big driver for what's ahead for us. California's public employee retirement system. So, Kalpers and Calsters, they
[00:44:02] provide the retirement benefits to roughly 3 million California public workers. And there's roughly a trillion dollars of capital in those two investment funds that are meant to support those retirees. They've been making about 7% a year compared to the S&amp;P making 11% a year. And the current accounting estimates that they're going to be short by some estimates 250 to30 billion by other estimates as high as a
[00:44:26] trillion dollars in the years ahead in paying out the benefits that they're legally obligated to pay to public employees as they retire. And you can't just change those benefits. There's a state supreme court case that's made that known that you can't go in and rescend benefits that you've promised someone. So you are stuck with that liability. And because they're public entities, California's state taxpayer is
[00:44:49] ultimately going to be stuck with a trillion dollar liability if that's what it comes to. How do we fix this frigin problem? >> Yeah, I'm worried about it as well and I'm intimately uh familiar with it because we've had to tackle pension reform in San Jose. We were sort of the canary in the coal mine quite a few years ago as our unfunded pension liabilities began eating up our general fund. Even today after pension reform,
[00:45:14] 19% of our general fund in San Jose this year goes to paying an unfunded pension liability. That just comes off the top. That is one out of every $5 goes first to our obligation to retirees. And again, I don't blame the retirees or those who advocated. politicians who didn't do the math, didn't recognize when the math wasn't working out, and swept it under the rug because they knew they'd be long gone by the time uh the
[00:45:40] the bill came due. And so, look, there's there's really only two options here. One is to move toward a defined contribution model as we have in the private sector. You see all over the world, the employer and the employee pay in. It's put in the market. It needs to grow over time. people need to calculate their savings and their >> you see your account you track it >> you track it you can up your contribution level if we were to move to
[00:46:09] that uh the private sector I'm sorry the public sector would need to be a a strong match and I I think the challenge is this I don't think politically that's likely to happen what we've done in San Jose which could be a roadmap for the state is we negotiated well we had to go to the ballot we went to there were lawsuits it was a very messy process I think it needs to be better handled. But effectively, we created a a different
[00:46:34] pension system for new employees that said, &quot;As you come in, this is what a right-sized pension system needs to look like. We're going to have the employee and the employer pay in more upfront. We will be more realistic about the returns we're expecting. We'll adjust over time faster if the returns are underperforming. We've brought in better fund managers who get who are heavily incentivized to make smart investments
[00:46:58] and grow the the the investment. And then most importantly, if our if the returns fall short, the the delta, the gap is covered 5050 by the city, meaning the taxpayers and the employee in terms of loss benefits. So there's shared pain on the backside if we miss our targets. And what do we do for what we have now? >> Well, well, what that has allowed us to do because of the legal limitations that you've mentioned is, and I'm not saying
[00:47:28] it's perfect, but this is just legally and politically what we were able to get to was the best outcome we were able to get, is that we're on a long glide path of paying off all of the the the unfunded liabilities for the tier one employees, all of those older employees. It's a 20 year process. By the early 2040s, San Jose will have cleared the debt. our general funds going to be flushed. We're going to be increasing
[00:47:52] staffing and service levels and and you'll start to feel that here much sooner. We are actually roughly at peak cost for unfunded liabilities today because we took the medicine and now we'll start that slow glide path where each year there'll be a little more room in our general fund because we actually bit the bullet and took this on. Well, I think that's like how do you fund that glide path? It may be the case that our
[00:48:15] budget has some margin for error, let's say, because of how much we're spending. Let's just do the statistics. California Governor Nuome has proposed a $349 billion budget this year in the state. That's up from 209 billion. So almost 2x 60% 70% 80% more 75% more than the year before co. And that's up from 110 billion 10 years prior. So we went from 110 to 350. 3 and a halfx is how much we're spending since, you know, feels
[00:48:46] like yesterday, like just a couple years ago. Yeah. Despite having the nation's highest tax rates, the largest revenue base, we're still looking this year at a $35 billion deficit California state budget. What happened? Like, how did this get so bad? And how much of this do you think is this term of fraud, waste, you know, abuse? Like, where is this money going? Well, part of what we've done is something we talked about
[00:49:13] earlier, which is we have increased our our pay for public sector employees and our our pension obligations and and post retirement health benefits at a faster rate than we could actually afford. And we haven't been honest with ourselves about that. Part of where the money's gone though is is is really just a sprawling bureaucracy that when we in good years have more money, we create new programs. We add headcount. The state's population
[00:49:43] has stayed flat over the last six years. Spending is up 75% as you point out, and headcount in state employees is up, I believe, over 20%. So, we're we're adding more state workers. We're pouring more money into public programs that aren't starting from the premise of what is the outcome we need and how do we most efficiently get there. I mean, it's time for California to go through an exercise of zerobased budgeting and say
[00:50:10] what are the outcomes we need and are we actually spending dollars to achieve those outcomes or are we just funding a sprawling bloated bureaucracy where it's just easier to add 2% 3% headcount every year, give everybody a 4% raise and call it a day. And I think it's it's that's generally been the approach is whenever revenue is up, we just kind of give everybody a raise, hire more people, initiate a few new programs. We never go
[00:50:32] back to basics and say, well, this is if these are the resources we have and these are the outcomes we need, are we really optimizing our spend for those outcomes? And the answer is no, we're not. Can you do that riff restructuring zerobased budgeting as governor or do you need to do this in partnership with the legislature that all has their special programs that they fired up where money's flowing to their local
[00:50:53] county, money's flowing to their friends, money's flowing to their donors? How do you actually execute this? I think yeah, as I said before, I I think electing a pragmatic, independent-minded governor who's willing to who understands this problem and is willing to tackle it is step one and is necessary but insufficient. Ultimately, we have to build a more moderate coalition of legislators who understand how broken the system is, who
[00:51:22] are willing to do to do hard things. I don't I don't think that this just happens overnight, but the governor has a lot of tools that he or she can choose to use that, you know, you do drive the budget process. Ultimately, you need legislative support for it. You have the bully pulpit. You have the ability to manage state agencies in a very different way. The governor appoints 3,000 people to run state bureaucracies
[00:51:44] that can either come in with the mindset of business as usual. I'm going to sit behind a desk. We're processoriented. Or can be held accountable and maybe it should be 3,000 employees. Maybe we should slim how many people it is, but can be told here are the outcomes we need. Tell us, you know, go ground truth these. Go down to the local level, spend time with the school boards, the cities, and the counties where all the money
[00:52:06] actually meets the constituent where the rubber hits the road and come back with answers on how to reform these systems to get more for what we're spending. And if you can't hit more aggressive goals, we'll bring in someone else who can. We need a different mindset for how we operate our government agencies. >> What you're saying is starkly different from what others are saying. And one of the biggest points that others are
[00:52:27] making right now is that they want to increase programs and increase spending particularly in healthcare. So what's your view on government provided health care? Should all healthcare in California be free? There's a big movement, a big legislative effort to try and make this the case. Does this make economic sense? Can we afford it? How do we actually do it? or do you think that this should remain a private
[00:52:48] market effort? >> I don't think it's realistic for California to create a um a single staterun free healthc care for all system. I just I I don't understand. I I know my uh many of my opponents in my party, Democratic party, are proposing this. I think we have a pretty good sense of how to reduce cost. We just have to be willing to do it. price transparency and competition could bring down costs in health care by 5 to 10%.
[00:53:22] Preventative care, we should be incentivizing insurers and and um health providers for helping someone get healthier and reducing their overall demand on the system over the course of their lifetimes. things that may seem small, but getting a hundred thousand plus people off of our streets and into shelter dramatically reduces the burden on our health care system. I I just I I think that prevention take another one.
[00:53:52] Nurse practitioners can do so much more than we often allow them to do, which again is a function of this behind-the-scenes negotiation in Sacramento over what are doctors allowed to do, what can nurses do. nurse practitioners providing preventative upstream care in clinics in communities can be far more effective at preventing long-term chronic illness than what we do today, which is end up with everybody in the emergency room needing care after
[00:54:16] they're already really sick. So, we need to restructure our health care system. California should be demanding and investing in innovation and better ways of doing things and bend the cost curve, not fall back on this lazy answer that we're just going to find a way to raise taxes more to fund free services that will ultimately break just break the bank. >> You've been criticized by many for being against the billionaire tax. I think
[00:54:42] you're the only candidate running for governor right now that has spoken out against it. I've heard your comments on it obviously. I think I was probably the first to identify it and bring it up on my show when it first came out the day it was filed. For me, it's fundamental to private property rights. If you can take people's assets after they've paid taxes on it, there's no stopping that train. I mean, why not take everyone's
[00:55:04] assets at some point? Like that, you know, you pay your income tax, that's your private property, you get to keep it. Shouldn't be that the legislature can later say, &quot;I'll take 10% of what you own.&quot; That just seems wrong to me. Do you think we need to have a continued increase? Like do you think we need to maintain the temporary high income taxes in California? What's your general view on revenue? We've talked a lot about you
[00:55:24] think hey, you know, we don't need to rely on growing revenue, but based on the current tax system in California, what else do you think needs to change or do you think it's just like let's leave it as is, no billionaire tax, no new taxes, but let's just not go back. >> Yeah, let me say a couple things. one, I I think where this push is coming from is a deep concern about economic inequality and declining social
[00:55:47] mobility. And I think these are >> real issues. I am worried about economic inequality. I think in the long run it's a threat to democracy. I think there are a number of better solutions to this than the proposed wealth tax which is as you point out say aside even the philosophic arguments it simply won't work certainly not at the state level half the people I know have already left the state >> right we've seen over a trillion dollars
[00:56:13] of capital flight our ongoing revenue going forward is now going to be lower that the dirty secret of this proposal is that it won't be the billionaires who pay higher taxes it'll be middle class and working families who are left holding the bag. So that mean that's why I just immediately felt that I had to say something because it's working people who are going to be hurt by this. It's not going to be billionaires.
[00:56:37] They're the most mobile people in society. Um so look, I I think first of all there are things we can do to make the tax code uh fair. I think there's a legitimate debate about what should the absolute rate of capital gains tax be. There's the phenomenon of very wealthy individuals borrowing against uh appreciated assets where you're not you're sort of you're effectively avoiding paying capital gains. I think
[00:56:59] that's a loophole we can close. There's the step up in basis upon death. I'm not sure that um it's very fair for somebody. Well, let me just use an example. I'll just say this. I don't think Elon Musk should be able to pass on $500 billion of appreciated but untaxed stock wealth to his children. And the moment that they inherit it, it's rebased at current market value and no one ever pays the capital gains on
[00:57:23] it. I mean, there there are a lot of things we can do to capture billions in revenue to close loopholes in the tax code. This is of all the proposals, the the worst, the least likely to work, the most likely to hurt working people. But I also think we have to acknowledge in a state that keeps asking for more before we do better, we we've got to acknowledge that social mobility is down because of po public policy failures
[00:57:46] first and foremost, public schools that aren't performing, housing that isn't affordable, energy that isn't affordable. We when half of people sorry when most Californians are spending over a third of their income on housing many spending over half of their income on housing that hit social mobility a lot more than the fact that the tech sector has had a bunch of growth. It's just these are fundamental public policy
[00:58:13] failures and the sooner we own them and think differently about our regulatory environment and our policies so we start fixing them the the better for California, the better for the Democratic party. Uh most importantly, the better for the people we serve. But what you're saying makes a lot of sense, but I think people hate other people's success. I think there's a lot that's been going on, this fueling that's going
[00:58:36] on with the lack of social mobility, but seeing a small segment of the population accelerate. Technology's really had that driven that. I'll be the first to admit there's a small population in California that's done extremely well while most of Californians have been left behind. Do you think you're electable in a sense? I mean, you're not fueling the populist sentiment that I think every one of your candidates has found they can tap into
[00:58:58] and uh that may put you at a big disadvantage in this race. Look, I I do think we we need to take economic inequality and social mobility much more seriously than we have. I think we need to ask and ultimately demand our um our wealthiest individuals, our tech sector, industries that do well to be structured in a way that works for people. Um I I'm curious what you think. Maybe I'll turn the tables for a moment. I think that we