[00:56:59] that's a loophole we can close. There's the step up in basis upon death. I'm not sure that um it's very fair for somebody. Well, let me just use an example. I'll just say this. I don't think Elon Musk should be able to pass on $500 billion of appreciated but untaxed stock wealth to his children. And the moment that they inherit it, it's rebased at current market value and no one ever pays the capital gains on
[00:57:23] it. I mean, there there are a lot of things we can do to capture billions in revenue to close loopholes in the tax code. This is of all the proposals, the the worst, the least likely to work, the most likely to hurt working people. But I also think we have to acknowledge in a state that keeps asking for more before we do better, we we've got to acknowledge that social mobility is down because of po public policy failures
[00:57:46] first and foremost, public schools that aren't performing, housing that isn't affordable, energy that isn't affordable. We when half of people sorry when most Californians are spending over a third of their income on housing many spending over half of their income on housing that hit social mobility a lot more than the fact that the tech sector has had a bunch of growth. It's just these are fundamental public policy
[00:58:13] failures and the sooner we own them and think differently about our regulatory environment and our policies so we start fixing them the the better for California, the better for the Democratic party. Uh most importantly, the better for the people we serve. But what you're saying makes a lot of sense, but I think people hate other people's success. I think there's a lot that's been going on, this fueling that's going
[00:58:36] on with the lack of social mobility, but seeing a small segment of the population accelerate. Technology's really had that driven that. I'll be the first to admit there's a small population in California that's done extremely well while most of Californians have been left behind. Do you think you're electable in a sense? I mean, you're not fueling the populist sentiment that I think every one of your candidates has found they can tap into
[00:58:58] and uh that may put you at a big disadvantage in this race. Look, I I do think we we need to take economic inequality and social mobility much more seriously than we have. I think we need to ask and ultimately demand our um our wealthiest individuals, our tech sector, industries that do well to be structured in a way that works for people. Um I I'm curious what you think. Maybe I'll turn the tables for a moment. I think that we
[00:59:27] need a shared prosperity that includes people having some sort of equity from or more direct benefit in the incredible gains that tech has produced. AI is scaring a lot of people because it could lead to the elimination of jobs, further concentration of wealth. What do you think is the appropriate role for the tech sector and those who have profited immensely from it to ensuring a level playing field or at least you know some
[00:59:59] some notion some semblance of of equality of opportunity? >> That's a longer conversation but I do think giving more people more ownership is important but I'm not sure people are going to want to or need to work at big companies anymore with AI. the longer conversation. But in the same way that Instagram, Shopify, Etsy created a Tik Tok created new jobs almost like new roles, new ways that people could earn. >> Yeah.
[01:00:27] >> I think AI is going to create a thousand times more new ways for people to earn than they do today. And they're not going to have to have the job that they feel like they're stuck with today. And AI is actually going to accelerate more people up the ladder faster than anyone's really realizing. And I can give you countless examples of this that I've seen recently, but I think we're all going to wake up pretty happy with
[01:00:47] the next advance in in economic mobility that's going to be unleashed because of AI, not in spite of it. I hope that's true. It's a very optimistic read. I do think my read of history is that technological change while ultimately producing greater abundance, if you will, often is really hard on people. And that's why in in San Jose at least, we've done we've created AI upskilling courses for our workers. We've gotten AI
[01:01:11] companies to come into our libraries and provide tools and training. We're really trying to figure out how we lower barriers to learning how to use these tools, apply them in people's lives, start those new businesses, create the new jobs of the future. >> The cool thing is AI can teach people how to use AI. >> That's true. >> Which is where where I I'm starting to see a lot of people learn how to use these tools on their own by asking the
[01:01:33] AI and engaging. And then there's almost like you watching people get knocked down like bowling pins in terms of wo that wo moment that I've I've been vis like visibly seeing people just in the last couple months >> is making me very optimistic. >> That's good. It does though get back to this basic point that we need our public education system to teach people to think critically. When half of our kids aren't on grade level for reading or
[01:02:03] math proficiency, it's going to be very hard for them to be lifelong learners. >> I mean, curiosity and asking questions and learning how to think, not teaching them knowledge is a massive problem that we're dealing with in education in the United States, in my opinion, on its own. Kids are not being taught how to question, how to build. They're being taught facts. Those facts are irrelevant because they all exist in AI. Now you
[01:02:24] don't need to know all those facts. You It's good to have basis. But what are you really trying to get? A curious mind, an engineering mind, a creative mind, a thoughtful mind, and teach individuals agency in a world where they have infinite capacity. That's what AI gives all of us. >> But what do you think of Donald Trump? >> I'm not a fan. Um, my concern with Donald Trump, even if he may get certain issues right, I think he's channeled the
[01:02:51] frustration of working Americans who feel that they've been left behind, is that I don't believe he really understands what makes our country great. I think that he has created a lot of fear and division around immigration. doesn't recognize how many people we have had in this country in part because both Democrats and Republicans wanted access to cheap labor in places like Watsonville where I grew up who have
[01:03:16] been here 20 30 years working hard paying their taxes otherwise playing by the rules raising children who are US citizens who are now living in in terror because they're worried their families going to get ripped apart. Um, I I don't understand and don't support this war in Iran that I think is a huge uh huge blunder and it's going to drive up energy costs and it's it's not clear to me why we're losing American lives over
[01:03:39] there. Um, I just, you know, I think tariffs, yes, I do believe China, this is something I think he's gotten right, has been competing unfairly with the US. I think a targeted approach to tariffs, focusing on that issue would have made a lot more sense than the general inflation we've seen. So, I mean, I could go issue by issue, but I just I worry mostly about the health of our democracy. I think it requires a um a
[01:04:05] real honest dialogue, a respect for rule of law and the independent judiciary. Um I just yeah I have deep concerns that this not just populist but um reactionary quasi authoritarian rhetoric and mindset is the outcome of declining trust in government when we don't hold ourselves accountable for delivering for working people. I think it's predictable and I think you're seeing an equal and even um I'd say equally risky rise in populism on the
[01:04:40] left in reaction and these two are playing off one of one another. And part of the reason I jumped into this race was to offer a third way, a pragmatic alternative. I'm a I'm a Democrat, but I also recognize that something's broken in California. The incentives are all wrong. The highly organized interests in Sacramento are being taken care of. Sacramento is working great for highly organized interests. It is not working
[01:05:07] great for regular people. And I think the best antidote to that is to get back to basics, be competent, be data driven, deliver results for people because I'm worried that if we don't, we're going to see this epic populist battle on the right and the left where people are offering really easy answers, not the honest answers that we need. rate Governor Nuome and the job he's done as governor of California. >> I think Governor Nuomoe has been a bull
[01:05:33] work against some of the worst ideas coming out of the legislature. You mentioned that he's vetoed 10 to 15% of the bills coming out of the legislature. Uh many of those vetos I agree with and I think have averted um real harm. I my my critique has been around not doing enough to take on the entrenched interests in Sacramento and uh and we've we've disagreed very publicly on certain policy issues, Prop 36, recovery housing,
[01:06:07] um some energy policy points, but it's it's always I mean I try to attack problems, not people. I'm not really interested in, you know, evaluating somebody's intentions or or or their ideology so much as the results of their actions. And I think he's done some really good things. Uh I also think he he could do even more. And that's been my appeal to him is let's work together to drive even more change faster. But
[01:06:36] some of the things he's brought forward like care court, right idea. Now we need to execute it. We need to actually make sure that care court's actually getting people with addiction and mental illness into care. I think he's got the right right idea, right intention, but we've got to follow through and as governor, I would make sure that Prop 36, Prop 1, Care Court, uh number of things he's put in place are actually used to deliver
[01:06:56] the intended outcome. >> Governor Newim's put out a lot of these memes kind of making fun of Donald Trump by doing tweets sort of like the way Trump does truth social posts and yeah and so on. It's very antagonistic to the president, at least publicly antagonistic. At the same time, California relies on federal funding and requires a lot of federal cooperation, a lot of federal land in the state. How would you interact with President Trump
[01:07:18] and talk a little bit about how the the governor has interacted with President Trump publicly? >> Look, I understand what the governor's doing. He's, you know, been holding a mirror up to Donald Trump and um both fighting for California's values, which I appreciate. I think there's also just back to incentives. I mean, he's he's running for president and and that's where I think this approach is coming from. I would take a different approach in the
[01:07:48] sense that as governor focused on delivering for Californians, I will fight the Trump administration through through the courts, through the bully pulpit whenever necessary to protect our values, to protect our people, to protect state funding. I also think though that we need to find places where we can achieve a win-win with the federal administration. I'll give you the example that's top of mind for me. I
[01:08:14] just spent time walking through Altadena, the Palisades where people have lost everything, over 10,000 homes lost between the two. People are desperate to rebuild. They're not getting the help that they need. And part of the reason they're not getting the help that they need is this hyperartisanship in which uh California and Washington are fighting rhetorically and politically and the people who are being hurt are the families who have lost
[01:08:43] their homes who are waiting on the $40 billion of federal aid that's been promised and that if it weren't for this political battle would have already flowed to help those neighborhoods rebuild. And I just as governor, yeah, I I will absolutely fight for our values, but I'm committed to fixing our problems, which means finding a way to make it a win for this president and this administration to rebuild Los Angeles. That we have to put the people
[01:09:11] before our politics. And as it relates to ICE and immigration enforcement, do you consider undocumented immigrants in the state of California individuals that you would represent as governor? Is it part of your job to protect undocumented immigrants who came here illegally that ICE would like to remove? >> Yes, unless they're committing serious and violent crime. Look, if you're here, you're not documented, you're committing
[01:09:38] violent felonies, I think you should be deported. But like many of the people I grew up with, if you were essentially if ta maybe tacitly welcomed here because we had an a industry or a construction industry that needed lowcost labor and you came, started a family, started working, paid taxes, raising kids here who were born here who were US citizens. The only practical and ethical solution is for parties to put
[01:10:07] the hyperartisanship aside, come together, and come to a grand bargain in which we secure the border. We deport those committing violent crime who are undocumented, and we create a pathway to a legal to some sort of legal status. If citizenship is a bridge too far for that older generation that came earlier, so be it. But their kids are US citizens and they deserve to still live with their parents. And I think we've got to
[01:10:32] find that the the approach that respects people's humanity and is practical and ethical. And I'm incredibly disappointed, frankly, with both parties for years of kicking the can down the road. And I will absolutely stand up to protect undocumented residents who are playing by the rules, who are doing the most American thing. And I get all the I get all the arguments around lawful immigration. Let's secure the border and
[01:10:57] set up a proper system of lawful immigration going forward. and not create a bad incentive. So, let's do that and then create this pathway to legal status. But what we've seen play out in in Minneapolis is horrible for the country. We're seeing citizens arrested, even killed. This is this is not this is not working and I don't think it's ethical. >> Let me give you the push back that the Republican party leadership would would
[01:11:22] give, which is that many of these individuals will end up voting for Democrats. Vast majority of them will vote for Democrats and that the border was opened. They were allowed in here and now this inevitable due to humanitarian conditions path forward to citizenship will ultimately increase the Democratic party's voting base and lock them into power in DC, lock them into power in these states, turn more states
[01:11:42] blue, etc. How do you respond to that concern and push back? Put the humanitarian piece aside, but that the reason the border and every Democrat I ask about this cannot answer the question, why was the border opened? Was it to lower labor costs? Was there some other reason that we did it? Was it to increase the voting base? I mean, what was the motivation and how do we address the response that's going to come for
[01:12:03] the many years ahead from a Republican party that's going to have issue with this? >> So, my sense growing up in an in an a town that historically has probably been about a third undocumented is that the primary incentive for the parties to not solve this problem is that a lot of people became very wealthy. A lot of industries did very well by having access to lowcost abundant labor and plenty of the business interests that did really well
[01:12:31] in a construction and other otherwise I mean historically this would have been say meat the meat packing industry right um they're donors to the Republican party. So I think both sides have been complicit. I think the back to incentives, I think Democrats and Republicans have played to their base and actually been politically incentivized to not solve the problem. And as a pragmatic moderate, my approach is to say you're both wrong, but there's
[01:12:58] something true in what you're both saying. Republicans are right that we should be able we should know who and what comes in and out of the country. We should have a secure border and we should take away any incentive for people to come here illegally, especially in a moment where uh we've got a fentanyl crisis. We've got international terrorism. We've got nukes that are getting smaller and smaller. We should have border security. Absolutely.
[01:13:24] If you're not here lawfully and you're committing serious and violent crime, deportation is the is the minimum expectation of what should happen. So, let's do that. But I just I think both parties have been complicit. We can sit around and say who wins electorally or economically. We can play that game and continue to have this incredibly divisive and unproductive situation where millions of people are living in
[01:13:47] fear, living in the shadows, or we can fix it. And when I say legal status, maybe that legal status doesn't come with a with a right to vote. Maybe it's a green card. I mean, I'm I'm for compromise and problem solving and moving the country forward. Both sides are going to have to give if we're going to solve this problem. >> I think that's the best idea possible for how to solve this, which is a path to residents without a path to voting.