[00:00:01] I, James Vance, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States. So help me God. >> Congratulations, Mr. Vice President. >> We're the senior [music] partner. We're the world's superpower. That's the way that it works. >> This is not just theft of the American people's money. This is also theft of critical services that the American people rely on. This is a [music] problem that has festered in this
[00:00:24] country for far too long. You stop socialism by making people's lives better. [music] And that's what we're trying to do every single day. >> We got to take care of business this November, then we'll worry about [music] what comes next. >> Please welcome Vice President J. D. Vance. [music]
[00:00:48] [music]
[00:00:55] All right. [applause] Nice to see you, Mr. Vice President. How are you? >> I'm good. I'm good. I Jason, I I caught the very tail end of that panel discussion and you you were asking somebody about how their life had changed. I couldn't see who it was, but asking how their life had changed cuz they had been in the big house, which it appears to me you meant prison, but I I thought you were talking about the Michigan football team stadium
[00:01:17] [laughter] they played. So, very different understanding of what you were talking about and what was actually going on. >> Yeah. >> Uh, well, it's great it's great to have you back. We always appreciate that you take the time to join the besties and have a very candid, honest discussion. This is your, I think, third or fourth time on the program. Uh, and it's a great time to be on the program because you're halfway through uh your term
[00:01:38] approximately and the midterms are coming up. maybe you could assess what's went really well for and what you're proud of with this uh first two years and then let's get into some things that maybe your own constituents um are not happy with and uh let's start with the positive. What do you think you've accomplished in these first two years? Well, look, I I think the the two things that I'm most proud of are first of all,
[00:02:06] we actually got control of the southern border, but started to reverse the flow of illegal immigration, which is about 3 million lower today than it was when we came into office. Obviously, there's a lot more to do, but if you look at the history of Western governments in the post-war era, they open the border. They invite border invasions, but they never actually reverse it. At best, they slow it down. I think President Trump was the
[00:02:25] first president in my lifetime to actually reverse that flow of illegal immigration. I'm extremely proud of that. I'm also proud, as you guys know, I've been obsessively focused on this. [applause] I I I've been obsessively focused on this for a long time, which is the idea of re-industrializing and recapitalizing the the the manufacturing base of the United States of America. And, you know, this was a bipartisan consensus that
[00:02:51] leaned into globalization that sort of bought into this idea that you could have a prosperous economy that was built entirely around services, tech, and finance. And the reality of course is that to have a truly prosperous economy, you still have to make stuff. And I think Donald Trump understood that better than anybody else. Obviously, it takes a long time uh to rebuild the manufacturing base of the country. But
[00:03:10] if you look at the trillions of dollars of new investment, the new construction, uh the new manufacturing facilities being built, I do think that you're seeing the obvious signs that over the past 18 months, we've reversed a 40-year trend. Now, Rome wasn't built in a day. going to take longer to fully undo the damage wrought by the last 40 years. But the fact that we're actually on the right pathway is a signature achievement
[00:03:32] of Donald Trump. But I think it's the thing that he will be remembered for even more than the border. He will be remembered for ending the sort of consensus around globalization and actually enacting policies that get us on the on the right track. Again, >> I think we we all agree with those two and just absolute congratulations on that. Uh you guys have crushed it. I think we all concur. um your constituents, the people who voted for
[00:03:56] you are extremely frustrated about two issues. Let's just tackle them head-on. The first is you promised us you wouldn't start a foreign war. You promised us you wouldn't start a foreign war in the Middle East specifically. And then you promised you would get inflation under control. You haven't been able to get inflation under control. Still 3 or 4% this year. It's not looking good. And Americans, specifically the people who voted for
[00:04:18] you, Mr. vice president are very upset about starting this war. What is your message to them? How do these two issues get resolved? Because people are very unhappy about it. >> Yeah. So, so Jason, I understand that and I certainly hear from people. And what I would say first of all is we invite people into the coalition who disagree with us. You don't have to agree with us on every single issue. But on the war specifically, what I I would
[00:04:42] say is look, the president came in and yes, he wanted to keep the United States out of foreign entanglements. He also said that he was committed to Iran not having a nuclear weapon. And I think that wanting to keep the United States out of foreign entanglements does not mean that you can never use the military in order to accomplish the American people's objectives. Now, all that said, despite the fact that we did accomplish
[00:05:04] a substantial destruction, not just of their nuclear program, but also of the Iranian conventional military, we've seen the Iranians shooting at commercial shipping even in the midst of peace negotiations. And I think the president has actually done the responsible thing here, which is to try to ensure that world energy markets, despite Iranian terrorism, continue to get that flow of oil and gas. And so what I would say to
[00:05:26] anybody who's frustrated right now is the alternative here, which is the United States effectively says to the Middle East, you're on your own, would mean necessarily a worldwide energy crisis so long as the Iranians keep on shooting at shipping, which we know that's exactly what they would do. So, I think the president is taking the responsible course of action. He's protecting America's assets in the region while also ensuring that world
[00:05:49] energy markets continue to get a supply of oil and natural gas. And you on the inflation, Jason, I I think we've made a lot of progress. To my point earlier, Rome was not built in a day, but you know, under the Biden administration, we had inflation, I think, at 9 12% annualized. That's the highest rate in about 48 years. You're right. three and a half% is still too high, but you've seen substantial progress and of course
[00:06:12] we're going to keep on making progress. I guess my pitch to the American people and to to your listeners certainly would be do you want to reelect the people who have made substantial progress accepting there's still a lot of work to be done or do you want to go back to the people who caused the problem in the first place? And obviously I'm biased but I think that you should elect the people who have actually made substantial
[00:06:33] progress while recognizing a lot more progress needs to happen. Mr. Mr. Vice President, the um [applause] one of the other things many of us were excited about with this incoming administration was addressing the fiscal deficit. Uh it seems to become more apparent to markets that this is potentially a risk to the to the the US um dollar over time. The the 30-year I think is around 5.2% now. What's your view? And you know, when the
[00:07:05] administration came in, there was an effort with Doge. Uh, but it's been very hard to get congressional action to take the steps necessary to reduce the deficit. Maybe you can share the administration's view, your view on what can we do to write the fiscal course for the federal government now and over time. >> Yeah, look, it's a very important and fair question. I mean, I I think that in fundamentally the the anti-fraud efforts
[00:07:28] that I've been focused on, we've saved about $250 billion of the American taxpayers money that would have otherwise gone to fraudsters. And in the scale of a 7 trillion federal budget, obviously $250 billion isn't the whole thing, but it's a lot and it's something that we're very proud of. I think we have to continue to sort of just tackling the basic fraud and waste that's endemic to our government. And of course, we are going to need some real
[00:07:51] bipartisan legislative solutions to give markets confidence. Not just that we're going to be serious about the deficit, but that hopefully the president who comes after and the Congress that comes after is going to be serious about the deficit. I think fundamentally the problem here, and I I think what the markets are responding to at this moment is the perception that neither congressional Republicans or Democrats
[00:08:14] are serious about the debt and the deficit. Obviously, I think the administration, I'm biased. I think that we are serious about this issue. If you look at what Scott Bassen, who I'm going to meet with in a couple of hours, actually, uh what Scott Bassen has talked about is, you know, let's be realistic. We have we we inherited a $2 trillion fiscal deficit. And you're not going to get back to a balanced budget
[00:08:33] by cutting $2 trillion out of a $7 trillion budget overnight. What you can do is you can cut smartly but also grow and get the economy in a position where that fiscal deficit is closer to 3% of GDP. Now yes we got to make more progress but if you look at what Scott has done at the Treasury I think that we are on pace to get to a point where we can get the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level and then of course you
[00:08:58] get it to a sustainable level and you can continue to make progress from there. But it is certainly a very serious problem, something that we're very focused on. And I guess what I would say to to markets is we've got a secretary of the Treasury, but also a president who are very focused on the problem, but it's going to require a long-term solution. Ideally, something with some bipartisan consensus, which is
[00:09:17] something we'll have to see about because let's be honest, uh, a lot of people in Congress, not just Democrats, but a lot of people in Congress have not shown a willingness to be serious about spending. We have to change that. >> Let's, um, let's maybe double click on that, Mr. Vice President. There's one one of the ways that we can get out of this is through growth and productivity growth. But there is this crazy dynamic
[00:09:38] where it just seems like there are forces many inside the United States um that try to slow us down whether it's data centers and you may have heard yesterday but the president called in and tried to help debunk it with Jensen Meta uh was here debunking uh Microsoft was here but it just seems like a whack-a-mole problem of trying to actually get the truth out. just talk to us about how we've ended up in this situation
[00:10:04] where there are these forces that are trying to effectively lie or fear-monger to try to take power. >> Yeah. So, this is something I think we could spend an hour talking about. I know we don't have that much time, Chimath, but but fundamentally when I see the backlash to data centers, what I see is the the the the necessary the inevitable consequence of the United States not building enough power for a generation. And so we've talked about
[00:10:32] this before, but if if when I talk to people, I obviously sort of I'm out there campaigning a lot. I'm talking to people a lot. Uh there there's definitely some basic nimiism in the anti-data center thing, but there's also, you know, you talk to a guy who a year ago his power bill was $290 a month and now it's $580 a month. And the reality is that in blue states where we've made it impossible to build additional electricity generation,
[00:10:58] you're seeing a backlash when people start paying additional power costs. Now, my response to that is you can't just stop building because of it. What you've got to do is build the things that you need, specifically power. So, you know, Elon talks about this all the time, but I talk about it, too. If you look at the amount of power generated by the PRC, the People's Republic of China, and compare it to the amount of power
[00:11:20] generated by the United States of America in 2005, they crossed the line, meaning they started to generate just a little bit more power than we did in 2005. And since then, we have effectively flatlined. and the PRC now generates three times as much electricity as the United States of America does. I think that a lot of our problems um are downstream of that fundamental problem and we just have to build more. We have to build more power.
[00:11:48] We I mean, you know, I I think we have to have this vision in the United States of electricity that is too cheap to meter. And that's I think the way that you push back against some of this ridiculous um you know sort of anti-building power comes from the failure to generate the electricity that we need. And I I just I don't understand how we ever got here as a country. I think the environmental movement obviously has a lot to do with it, but
[00:12:14] we've just got to build more power and that's how we solve this problem fundamentally. And then you know obviously some of this gets into the broader AI stuff Jamaimoth and you know the president I think is very rightly asking the question why is it that the people who are at the frontier of the AI economy are throwing up their hands and saying well we've built Frankenstein and the solution to Frankenstein apparently
[00:12:38] is to create a one world governance structure for artificial intelligence. What I would say to those people, if you're building Frankenstein, stop. Or maybe build, you know, if if the cat is out of the bag, then build the defensive mechanism against Frankenstein. And, you know, I I I I I don't know Daario well. I I've read everything that he said over the past couple of weeks. Everybody that I know tells me that he's very earnest,
[00:13:02] that this is a deeply held belief. It's not cynical. It's not about regulatory capture, that he genuinely cares about this. But at the same time, I talk to tech companies. I'm sure you guys talk to a lot more tech companies than I do. At the same time that you have this sort of cyber hacking tool that's come out of Anthropic's newest models, you have companies that are desperate for the defensive mechanisms to defend against
[00:13:26] that cyber hacking tool and they're being denied access to it. So if you're going to create Frankenstein, don't come to the government and say we need regulation. look inward and accept that if you're building Frankenstein, number one, you should stop. And number two, when the companies come to you and say, "We need the tools to fight back against Frankenstein," give them those tools. >> Right. Oh, >> it's incredibly common sensical.
[00:13:50] Uh Brad and then maybe Sachs. Yep. >> Mr. Vice President, great to see you. Um you know, the president called in yesterday. He's on top of the AI issue. you you're working for somebody who's the most incredibly entrepreneurial and risk-taking president perhaps in the last 50 years. I just had a at a you know personal level how is it working with somebody who is willing to take the risk that you know some people you know
[00:14:17] Jason criticized some of the things that haven't happened in the first 20 months but the fact of the matter is unlike a lot of people who occupy that office who are just looking to stay the course and take the safe path he's taking a lot of risks and then you have to help explain some of those I would I would put Trump accounts in that category the main street agenda But, you know, just talk to us a little bit at a personal level
[00:14:40] how working with him, how hard it is to keep up with his energy, his enthusiasm, his entrepreneurialism. >> Yeah, Brad, you know him well. He he sleeps less than any person that I've ever met. I don't sleep that much, but I certainly sleep more than him. You know, Scott Bassin and I always joke that he'll call us at 2:30 in the morning and he'll say, "Were you up?" And it's like, "No, sir, I wasn't, but I am now. So,
[00:15:01] let's let's talk about what's on your mind." Uh, he's working at all hours of the day. But but your point, Brad, is is very well taken. He is certainly willing to take risks. And I I I think, you know, you ask what it's like working for a guy like that. Well, one, it's never boring. But two, he's constantly probing, are we taking the easy path or are we taking the right path? And yes, maybe this thing is going to cause some
[00:15:25] political backlash or maybe the payoff is not going to be obvious until, you know, two years from now, 5 years from now, 10 years from now. But I think it's the exact right mindset. You know, one one of the frustrations I've had just looking at the economy, you know, pretty much my entire life is there's there's been this division between true entrepreneurs and managers, between bureaucrats and people who are genuinely