[00:13:26] that cyber hacking tool and they're being denied access to it. So if you're going to create Frankenstein, don't come to the government and say we need regulation. look inward and accept that if you're building Frankenstein, number one, you should stop. And number two, when the companies come to you and say, "We need the tools to fight back against Frankenstein," give them those tools. >> Right. Oh, >> it's incredibly common sensical.
[00:13:50] Uh Brad and then maybe Sachs. Yep. >> Mr. Vice President, great to see you. Um you know, the president called in yesterday. He's on top of the AI issue. you you're working for somebody who's the most incredibly entrepreneurial and risk-taking president perhaps in the last 50 years. I just had a at a you know personal level how is it working with somebody who is willing to take the risk that you know some people you know
[00:14:17] Jason criticized some of the things that haven't happened in the first 20 months but the fact of the matter is unlike a lot of people who occupy that office who are just looking to stay the course and take the safe path he's taking a lot of risks and then you have to help explain some of those I would I would put Trump accounts in that category the main street agenda But, you know, just talk to us a little bit at a personal level
[00:14:40] how working with him, how hard it is to keep up with his energy, his enthusiasm, his entrepreneurialism. >> Yeah, Brad, you know him well. He he sleeps less than any person that I've ever met. I don't sleep that much, but I certainly sleep more than him. You know, Scott Bassin and I always joke that he'll call us at 2:30 in the morning and he'll say, "Were you up?" And it's like, "No, sir, I wasn't, but I am now. So,
[00:15:01] let's let's talk about what's on your mind." Uh, he's working at all hours of the day. But but your point, Brad, is is very well taken. He is certainly willing to take risks. And I I I think, you know, you ask what it's like working for a guy like that. Well, one, it's never boring. But two, he's constantly probing, are we taking the easy path or are we taking the right path? And yes, maybe this thing is going to cause some
[00:15:25] political backlash or maybe the payoff is not going to be obvious until, you know, two years from now, 5 years from now, 10 years from now. But I think it's the exact right mindset. You know, one one of the frustrations I've had just looking at the economy, you know, pretty much my entire life is there's there's been this division between true entrepreneurs and managers, between bureaucrats and people who are genuinely
[00:15:46] innovative and willing to take risks. I think that we've had way too many caretaker presidents during my lifetime. Uh, frankly, way too many caretaker CEOs and not enough people who are genuinely innovative and willing to take risks. Obviously, he gets criticized for it from time to time, but I'd much rather have a president who's willing to take those risks, who's willing to take on the big projects. It's the only way I
[00:16:08] think you're going to reverse America's long-term decline is to be willing to take those risks. Thank God for the past 18 months, we've had a president willing to do just that. [applause] >> Uh Mr. Vice President, uh Jake forgot to ask uh his normal gotcha question on H1Bs. [laughter] So, um, >> well, that's because they took my advice and they raised the price. You were in sync on that one. >> Um, it, you know, it's an issue that the
[00:16:35] tech community cares about. At the same time, we have learned that the program was riddled with fraud. I'm curious what can you give us an update on, you know, where do those efforts stand? What, you know, what's happening with that the H-1Bs? >> Yeah. No, this is the the vin diagram overlap of Jason Calcconis and Steven Miller. It's a very small area. [laughter] But but look man, we we we looked at the fraud in the system and we said, you
[00:17:00] know, one, Congress is not going to pass a law changing this, there just isn't the political will to do it. So what are the things that we can do administratively to ensure that if a tech company is going to try to get an H-1B visa, it it's an actual genius. It's a person that is going to significantly enrich the tech ecosystem or the American economy. you know, you're not just replacing one accountant who makes $60,000 with a lower wage
[00:17:24] foreign accountant who makes $45,000 a year. That is not what the program exists for. And so, we came up with this idea to impose $100,000 fee. We're also looking at various ways of preventing companies that use H-1B visas from laying off a bunch of American workers. Uh so, you know, one of the the things that I find just shocking about this is you'll have a company that applies for an H-1B and they'll say, "Oh, we're
[00:17:47] desperate for workers. we can't find the workers. And then you go and look at their history and they've laid off 5,000 people. Well, that's ridiculous. If you're laying off American workers, you shouldn't be going to the market searching for foreign workers to replace them. So, we're doing a lot within the confines, of course, of what we're allowed to do legally. We've gotten sued on some of this stuff, but I think
[00:18:06] fundamentally we're on the right on both the law and the policy. The H1B should not exist to replace American workers with low-wage foreigners. It should exist to enrich the American economy. And that's exactly what we're trying to make sure it does. >> Mr. Vice President, can I can I ask um you're you're I I think you're you're titled the frauds are now. And just going back to the the um the deficit question, every week we're seeing these
[00:18:33] videos. You know, we've got Nick Shirley here this afternoon. I think he really started this trend of some of the citizen journalists going out and trying to find the fraud in the system themselves. And every week there's a new story that's being uncovered that's just mind-blowing. tens of billions of dollars over and over again. How much fraud do you think there? And and you know this California highspeed rail,
[00:18:51] there was a guy that got paid half a billion dollars for not working. Some billionaire in Italy who owns a football team. I couldn't believe it. I I tracked all this stuff and I'm like it just your head starts to spin. How much of our $7 trillion federal spending do you think is tied up in fraud, in this kind of system of waste and this corruption? And what's your sense of the scale of the the problem? Yeah. So, to two quick things on that.
[00:19:16] First of all, you know, Elon during the height of Doge said that it was 20%, that's $1.4 trillion. Uh whether it's 10% or 20%, you're talking about something on the scale of hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars. The biggest problem with finding fraud is is actually that the states where it's worst are also the states that have the least willingness to cooperate with what we're doing. So when you look at some of
[00:19:40] the bigger ticket items for fraud, you know, you're looking at Medicare fraud in California, people who are illegal, people who aren't even like human beings. They're just like a completely madeup, you know, shell of a person. Uh but but unfortunately, the the state of California is not actually helping us fight back against that particular fraud. or we know that there are hundreds [snorts] of thousands maybe
[00:20:03] more illegal aliens in Illinois, New York and California who are on Medicaid. That obviously is billions and billions of dollars to provide health care uh to those people. So the the the basic fraud that exists is the big programs in states that have allowed themselves to be overrun by illegal immigration. Another very good example, and this was shocking to me when we came in and started doing this work, is the way the
[00:20:31] SNAP program, this is the food stamp program that ensures that low-income Americans have access to food that they need. Obviously, one of the most important things that we do in the federal government is make sure that, you know, poor kids can eat. But that program is rife with fraud in part because the way it works is, you know, California bills us once a month for the cost of their SNAP program. It's seven
[00:20:54] or eight or 9 billion depending on the month that we're talking about. So what happens is the federal government wires $9 billion to California, no questions asked. So, it's not an exaggeration to say that we have no ability to know who is even on the SNAP program, whether they're a real human being, whether they're a legal resident of the United States of America. And when we go to the big blue states and say, "Why don't you
[00:21:17] help us just confirm basic eligibility?" We get totally push back. We we get no cooperation on this basic fact of good governance, confirming eligibility for federal programs. So my guess is that if the number is $700 billion, a few hundred billion of that is in the blue states and we could deal with it just by checking eligibility criteria. We're working on innovative ways to force that. But it's actually legally much
[00:21:43] harder than it should be to force the blue states to comply with some basic anti-fraud initiatives. >> Uh JD, before we wrap here, I want to ask you another hard question. Um this one about our relationship with the state of Israel and the president's relationship with BB Netanyahu. Um many people in the Republican party, MAGA are now moving to a new party, America first, America only. There's a rise in anti-semitism and there's a persistent
[00:22:10] belief amongst a lot of the people on the right that maybe our foreign policy is too influenced by the state of Israel or BB Netanyahu. Can you take us into the relationship right now where it stands uh and and and the you know the administration's position on collaborating with Israel on a lot of these military activities? >> Yeah. You know what the president has said, Jason, is obviously Israel has been an important partner when it comes
[00:22:39] to military technology, when it comes to intelligence sharing, but also sometimes the United States doesn't always agree with Israel. And I think that more than frankly any president in the last 40 years, he has shown a willingness uh to actually part ways with BB Netanyahu when he feels like the interests of the American people are different from the interests of of the government of Israel. And I find it a little ironic,
[00:23:01] Jason, that you have Democrats criticizing Donald Trump for his relationship with BB when Donald Trump is the one president of the last 40 years who's been willing to say, you know what, yeah, BB's a good partner, but also BB and I have a different opinion on this, or BB's wrong about this, or maybe BB's right about this from the perspective of Israel, but the American people need us to go in a different direction. So I I I just think
[00:23:22] that rooting this relationship like all relationships in America's interest is the way to actually have a rational conversation here because when you're talking about whether a given policy is in America's interest and you keep yourself laser focused on that, I think that's how you make sure that the American people know that you're fighting for them. But I also think that it allows us to actually rationally
[00:23:46] focus and force ourselves to have a conversation about when something that maybe sounded good or maybe has become a cliche or a slogan for the past 20 or 30 years. Well, maybe we have to do something different now. And I I think that that's how we have to approach not just this relationship but all relationships. By by the way, you you see a similar push back when the president makes the argument that he's made about NATO, which is yes, obviously
[00:24:11] a lot of important relationships, a lot of important partnerships in NATO, but that doesn't mean that we're going to completely make our European foreign policy subservient to NATO in the same way that we cannot let our Middle Eastern foreign policy be subservient to the state of Israel. We're going to work with people when we work with them. We're going to disagree when we disagree. And we're going to pursue
[00:24:31] America's interest. That's the only way to have a rational foreign policy. >> I know Trum wants to get one last question in here. Um, just before he does, uh, tell us, how's Marco Rubio doing in his job so far? Can you rate his performance in the first two years? >> He's doing great, man. I love Marco. Jason, the the funniest media narrative is that somehow Marco and I are like hyper competitive and we sit around like
[00:24:56] thinking about, you know, how we're going to run for president against each other in 2028. Like I I literally What time is it right now? It's 2:25. I have a call with Marco in five minutes. So Chimat's got to ask his question first. I got to answer it quickly and then Marco and I have to go do the business of the American people. He's a great dude. He's a great human being. He's doing a great job, too. >> So maybe maybe as we wrap, um there's a
[00:25:20] very consequential midterm coming up. I think uh a poll on one day will say that the Republicans are going to keep, you know, everything as is. the poll on the other day say it's going to be a socialist sweep of America. It's very complicated, but can you just give us some insight into what's actually happening on the ground and what is the message that needs to be delivered so that folks can uh come to the right
[00:25:42] conclusion November? >> You know, I guess I have two basic messages there is a lot of good that we've done over the past 18 months. We cut taxes bigly. We cut taxes on overtime, social security, and tips. Those are tax cuts for middle American workers, not just for the elites in in Washington and New York City. Uh we've had an amazing success with the border with immigration. We've pursued H-1B reform that prioritizes American workers
[00:26:10] over foreign nationals. There's a lot of good that's been done, but there's a lot of work left to do. Don't give power to the people who cause the problems that we're fixing. give us another chance or give us another couple of years to continue to work on the amazing things that we've been doing for the past 2 years. And the second argument I'd make is even if you don't agree with us on every issue, the other party is consumed
[00:26:32] by craziness. They're consumed by people who want to steal everything, who want to give the country over to illegal aliens and criminals. They actively brag about about it. I mean, I've heard a lot of crazy stuff, guys, over the past, you know, few years in politics. But when I heard somebody running for Congress in New York say that July 4th was about the liberation of Puerto Rico and Palestine, I thought to myself, this person needs
[00:26:55] to be checked into a mental hospital hospital, not given a seat in Congress. So to the American people, I'd say send these people packing. Put them in the middle hospital. Do not put them in Congress. Because even if you don't agree with us on every policy issue, at least we're motivated by common sense and American interest, they're just motivated by left-wing interest groups and radicalism, and they're going to do
[00:27:17] a very bad job if we give them power. >> All right, ladies and gentlemen, Vice President J. >> Thank you all. Good to see you guys. [music]