[00:59:06] providers who can do it. You got to require it. I mean last year even the de going back to our point about the legislature even the democrat legislature passed a bill called the sober housing act which would have taken a certain proportion of homeless spending and allocated it to uh shelter where you had a requirement was sobbriety vetoed that bill. It's unbelievable. So we got to have it 100% um sober requirement for any kind of
[00:59:33] state services on homelessness. The third part is mental health where honestly going back to the jails conversation, you talk to sheriffs around the state, they the number varies, but they say 50 I've heard as high as 70% of the people in their jails have severe mental health problems. That's where we are actually treating people with mental health problems. Either they're on the street or they're in jail is totally barbaric. And one of
[00:59:59] the reasons is that we when you're talking about the homeless population, obviously low-income people. So it's very much entwined when you talk about mental health care with Medicaid, with the federal system. And there's a rule in Medicaid that was set up right at the beginning when it was founded in the mid60s called the IMD rule, institutions of mental disease. And this was a time when they didn't want large mental
[01:00:22] asylums and whatever. The idea was you have small facilities in the community. So the rule is there is no Medicaid reimbursement to the states for any mental health care provided in a facility with more than 16 beds. It's a 16 bed rule. Of course, that makes the whole thing incredibly uneconomic and inefficient. Imagine if hospitals could only be 16 beds. How inefficient that would be. The first Trump administration
[01:00:47] created a waiver, the IMD waiver that states could apply for so you could get, you know, get around the rule. California. A lot of other states have have taken that up. California hasn't. There's plenty of money in the system. Like we've been saying, the budgets have are there. They've just been diverted into the wrong places. So, the third part of the plan is to take the money that's currently going into the homeless
[01:01:08] industrial complex, these ridiculous apartment units for people who should be either getting mental health care or recovery treatment. Take that money and put it into modern largescale mental health facilities. And then we can treat people. >> That's broad work. That's a great place for you to put a big magnifying glass because that's where there's massive amounts of corruption. People cannot believe how much we spend in this
[01:01:31] >> or we spend in California on >> homeless and if you pay for something you will get more of it and they're getting a lot more of it. Yeah. >> Steve, as we wrap up, give us the quarterback view of your path to victory. Walk us through the sequence of events, the key moments leading up to the primary vote and then from primary to election day. what has to happen for you to get to Sacramento? >> So, we have the top two system. Um, for
[01:01:55] those who I mean, another crazy California thing where you end up with two candidates going through to the general election regardless of party. The idea of this was to have more moderate politics. Ever ever since it was introduced, the state's gone further and further to the left. Um, and so you've got various scenarios that are possible. Right now, I'm leading in all of the polls. Um, on the Republican side, there's one other candidate. I I
[01:02:22] think with the president with President Trump's endorsement of my campaign, I think we can expect um I'm pretty confident that we can make it into the top two. It's not certain. We we're we've got to, you know, fight very hard over the next month or so. The ballots go out next week, early May. Um, but I think that we're going to have a a top two with myself and one other Democrat. And right now it looks as if it's going
[01:02:46] to be one of Tommy Styer, Katie Porter, or Javier Basera. And all of those three represent either no change from what we have now or a move even further to the left in the wrong direction. So I think broadly the argument is going to be very straightforward, which is are you happy with the way things are going in California? Do you want more of it? And if you do, you vote Democrat or do you think we need a change? So that's it's a
[01:03:15] classic, you know, change versus more of the same election. Getting into the the numbers, it's I know a lot of people look at California and say it's impossible for a Republican to win. And Jason was pointing out we've had Republicans in the past, but that was, you know, a long time ago. And you could say special circumstances cuz Arnold Schwarzenegger was elected in a recall election and so on. >> And he was a celebrity who was highly
[01:03:39] and loved in Los Angeles, half the state. >> Exactly. All of those things are true. But and so I've always said from the beginning of this that it's not going to be easy to win. It's going to be very difficult because of the structural factors in California. But it's not impossible. And given the seriousness of our predicament and how much I think the whole country depends on a a successful growing thriving leading California,
[01:04:03] then we should go for it because getting things back in a common sense direction is just a really important thing. I always say California means to America what America means to the world. And so this matters. If you look at the numbers on the on the some people look at the voter registration numbers and they say Democrats outnumber Republicans 2 to1 and that is true, but when you look at actual voting, the gap is a little bit
[01:04:27] closer. Over the last 20 years where you haven't had Republicans elected, the the the pretty much the average Republican vote has been just over 40%. So it's been like a 6040 split. Obviously, that's not close, but the gap is perhaps not as wide as some people might think. But then you look at a couple of factors that I really think are different this year. First of all, there's a dissatisfaction with the way things are going that
[01:04:53] wasn't there before. If you look at that basic number, is the state on the right track, wrong track? In the even four years ago in the last governor's race, the wrong track number was kind of mid to high 40s. Now it's mid to high 50s. So there's a majority for change in California, just put it that way, which is a good environment to be going into as a candidate representing change. The second point is if you look at the
[01:05:18] actual votes you're going to need to win, this is a midterm election 2026. If you try and get some kind of sense of how many votes will be cast in the midterm election this year, take the average of the last two, 2018 2022, you get a total of 11.7 million total votes as an estimate. So to win, you're going to need just over half of that. Call it 5.9 million. Now, when people say there aren't enough Republicans in California
[01:05:46] to win, in the in 2024 in the presidential race, President Trump in California, without even campaigning here or spending money on ads or anything, wasn't a targeted state, got 6.1 million votes. In other words, there's more than enough people who just voted Republican for President Trump. Now, of course, you're not going to get 100% of a presidential year turnout in a midterm election, but the reason I make
[01:06:12] that point is that the votes are there actually, even with just Republicans. Now, I don't think we're going to get there just with Republican votes, but that's the starting point is a strong campaign to turn out Republican votes. And a big driver for that this year that again is a unique feature this year is the fact that in November we're going to have voter ID on the ballot. that just qualified for the ballot. Um, and
[01:06:37] Republicans particularly are enthusiastic about voter ID. I'm going to help us get a big turnout. And then in terms of the coalition for victory, I think that you've got a real opportunity to put together the kind of multi-racial workingclass coalition that President Trump put together because it's as going right back to where we started. It's workingclass people who are really really struggling and being hammered the
[01:07:02] most by these policies. They get to vote directly for no taxes. No state income taxes. >> Exactly. Because that's my tax plan. I I just put this out there just the other day, which is no and and no tax on tips. That's the other part. I mean, which has been implemented at the federal level, but California won't do it at the state level. Just my whole plan is geared toward $3 gas. I call it Californable. $3 gas. Cut your electric bills in half.
[01:07:27] Your first 100 grand taxfree. A home you can afford to buy. really simple, practical, common sense things that particularly help the people who've been hurt the most over the last few years. And I think that's how we pull this off. >> Steve, on behalf of all, I just want to say thank you for being so incredibly candid and open with us. We're wishing you the best of luck. >> Thank you for joining us. And just from my seat, if if you want
[01:07:55] >> moving back. [laughter] >> No, I mean if you want it just I left for a reason and part of it was the dysfunction of the state and if you want things to continue I think you know having an unbalanced government that's all in one party is a way to do that. You got to try to find some balance here and I think why not give it a shot? If you're in California, you have nothing to lose. The state is in a massively
[01:08:17] dysfunctional situation. So, I wish you great luck, Steve Hilton. >> Thank you, guys. Great to be with you. >> All right. Cheers. Now, [music] [music] >> I'm going all in.