[00:29:45] it's so expensive, it brings into play these three factors. First of all, it just costs more to build anything in California. The same exact floor plan, house, apartment building, industrial building, whatever it is, cost cost two or three times more to build in other in in California than in neighboring states. The first reason is the building codes, the actual requirements for construction which is way more ownorous
[00:30:09] driven by climate dogma that actually doesn't really provide much specific. What does that mean climate dogma? >> Well, you have to install here we are >> because like Nevada's hot and droughtridden and Arizona has issues. So what is it that we say that those states don't say? So when you build apartments or when you when you build parking you have to put in EV charging um and the scale of what's required for
[00:30:36] the EV charging just makes it more expensive. You have to you know like you do a parking structure they have to reinforce the floors. The bays have to be wider just it adds you can have you you have fewer bays per structure. Um there's the specific cost associated with that. um solar panels, we talked about that earlier in terms of low-inccome apartments that the that taxes are paying for. Um developers have
[00:31:00] to pay for that as well. Um insulation, um energy efficiency, all these things are good. And I think that's pretty much the story of California, which is things that start with good intentions actually end up being taken to an extreme where it just makes it too expensive to build at a rate that people can afford to buy the properties. And the other two are really that SQA where anybody can sue on behalf >> exactly the private right of action
[00:31:26] under SQA. So that and and but let's unpack that because that brings together the three things climate um litigation and unions because see the California environmental quality act itself is is a nightmare in terms of this the amount of regulation you have to comply with the private right of action means anyone can sue 70% of SQA lawsuits are used to block housing most of those lawsuits are filed by unions they're used as leverage
[00:31:53] to negotiate pro what they call project labor agreement ments where you have an agreement for the site and usually they have one or one of both one or two of these components both of which sound great skilled and trained workforce which means union only so it's a closed shop and prevailing wage again sounds very good but it's two or three times market rate wages so both of those things inflate the cost often I've
[00:32:19] spoken to many developers there aren't enough union workers in in the area to actually do the job so They have to sometimes fly them in from other states to do the job and the cost of travel and accommodation. It's just >> this is the key. There's no equivalent to SQA in Texas uh where I now reside uh after 20 years in California. The other thing is the fees. It's 30,000 per door in fees to the government. Exactly.
[00:32:44] Yeah. To to build a door in California. It's under a thousand in Texas. And in California has three times the new units per capita than California. So every year we produce three times as many new homes per capita. >> Just a simple question though guys, put this into chat GPT or whatever. >> California's mandate with SQA is to protect the air, protect the water, protect the land by some measures. Texas doesn't have it. Is it the case
[00:33:14] that Texas's air is worse, the water is worse, and the land is worse? >> No, definitely not. >> Yeah. >> So is is it roughly the same? meaning the particulate count, the pollen count, is the air quality the same because if it is then what is SQA doing other than just slowing down and retarding the progress of housing? Why hasn't that study? Because I think again all of this guys comes back to when the data is
[00:33:41] presented in a way that's factual, there's very little room for people on both sides to argue it because they're all relatively smart. It's when it's presented either in a partisan way or by somebody who reeks of partisanship that I think people attack the messenger versus the message. So I'm just trying to understand why hasn't the California government confronted this? It has the highest rents in America. It has the
[00:34:08] highest poverty rate in America and it also has the highest regulation that has the lowest and the slowest unit housing growth. Steve, I guess what I'm asking you is how does that not get to the legislators more? >> Okay. Well, I'll tell you it's I'm afraid the answer is the corruption within the system and the interest groups that have taken over the system. I'll tell you a story which is my first I I know a lot about housing policy
[00:34:34] because the first area of policy I studied when I decided that I wanted to get into the whole world of policy and politics in California. I actually tried to get a ballot initiative qualified for the ballot that would have two elements to it. One is what Jason just mentioned capping impact fees which are now up to about 20% of the cost of housing. Um I wanted to do a statewide cap of 3% um of construction cost and the second
[00:35:02] component was eliminating the private right of action under secret. I didn't succeed in getting it on the ballot. Didn't raise enough money in time. So then I tried to pursue it through the legislature said well let's see if we can make some something happen in the legislature. So I went to Sacramento I took meetings with legislators started to engage with Sacramento. There was one meeting I had with the legislator who
[00:35:24] was described to him is good on housing. This is a person you need to talk to and we had a great meeting. They said this would be transformational. I said great let's work on it together bipartisan. You're Democrat. I'm a Republican. That'd be great. People like that. Oh, I couldn't support you publicly. Why not? Well, the unions would hate it. Why? Because if you take away the private right of action, you take away the union's leverage. And I
[00:35:49] said, &quot;Yeah, but you just told me it would be transformational.&quot; We were sitting in an office. You could see the state capital down below, high up. They just waved their arm around like this and said, &quot;Yeah, the unions run this place.&quot; And that's the real reason. If you look at for example Newsome touted these two bills last year AB130 AB131 that were going to solve the housing crisis. He said this is the moment where
[00:36:12] we are embracing abundance and all the rest of it big squa exemptions for certain types of housing. But if you look at the fine print tucked away in it, you only get the exemptions if you have these project labor agreements and union union closed shop and prevailing wage. So you're just writing back in exactly the things that Sequ is causing the cost increases from. So because the UN and what let's follow all the way
[00:36:39] through. If you look at Gavin Newsome's political donations over the 16 years he's been running statewide just as a proxy for Democrat politicians by category. The number one category government unions, number two trial lawyers, number three non-government unions. So these are the that's why nothing changes because the the interests that benefit from this system are funding the politicians that make the decisions.
[00:37:05] >> Yeah. And Chamat to your other question of like is the environment better since 1970 when this regulation came into pass. >> California still has the worst air quality in the country largely because of the addiction to cars and traffic. And then Texas as a comparison just has industrial waste problems because we have a lot of chemicals here or chemical processing done here. >> So we have a car loving culture in
[00:37:31] California to your point Jason. It's part of our cultural fabric driving down Highway 1. It's just a very iconic thing that's embedded in this state. Steve, I have two questions. What has all of the incremental regulations done with respect to climate quality, whether it's EV mandates or the ice engine requirements? And then separately, just as a more general way to explain it, >> why is gas in California 7 8 gallon and
[00:37:58] why is it $3 everywhere else? Why is ours more than 2x that it costs everywhere else, including other states that are also quite expensive to live in? Well, also that they don't that we we have the highest gas in the country, including Hawaii in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, even though we have abundant oil reserves here. So, we have way higher gas prices than states that don't have oil reserves. We actually
[00:38:21] have very significant oil reserves in California. Um the the fundamental reason that gas prices are so high is because again in the name of climate, but without actually in this case, it's counterproductive to climate. um instead of using the production that we have here in California, I've been to the oil fields in Kern County mainly near Bakersfield. Um we are now importing nearly 80% of the oil that we use over
[00:38:47] the period of the since really this all started in 2006 with the passage of the global warming solutions act. That was the sort of foundational climate legislation in California. Over that period, our use of fossil fuels has declined by not that much. And the proportion of our energy that's coming from fossil fuels is is about 80% still. The rest of the country it's about 81%. So it's barely any different. But the
[00:39:11] difference is we used to produce most of what we use in state. Now we are importing nearly 80%. And that has driven up course you have to ship it from halfway around the world. Our number one provider is Iraq right now. That's the number one source of oil. >> Sorry, sorry. The state of California itself, we are the wholly dependent on Iraqi oil to sustain our economy. >> Not wholly, it's it's the number one provider. Yes. So if you look at the
[00:39:45] sources of oil, number one, Iraq, number two, I think it's Ecuador and Brazil. But the the the broader point on that is because the we used to have a let's just go back a few steps. We had a really strong energy industry and infrastructure in California where we produced most of the oil and gas that we use and we had refineries about 40 of them um around the state mostly in the Bay Area down near LA that refined and
[00:40:13] turned it into products that we use gasoline and so on. Um now we're down to seven refineries. One of the main reasons for that is that we're not producing what we what we what we could be refining. we're shipping it in instead because there are no pipelines of of there are no oil pipelines into California. Whatever we don't if we don't use our own, we have to bring it in by tanker. Um because of this and because of the the the fact that the
[00:40:41] refineries were built to to refine California crude, which is known as heavy crude. Um there different types around the world. You got to have a good match. Iraq provides Iraqi oil is a good match. The other place whose oil is a good match for our refineries is South America. And so as a result of Democrat climate policy, we are now expanding oil drilling in the Amazon rainforest in order to provide the right kind of oil
[00:41:11] for California's refineries. I mean, it's just so utterly insane and incoherent. And of course in the process we're spewing out carbon emissions because the tankers run on what's called bunker fuel which is the most polluting form of transportation there is. And just to make the whole insane scheme work carb the California Air Resources Board which is obsessed with having all other businesses account for their
[00:41:34] carbon emissions right down the supply chain. Miraculously the carbon emissions for the oil imports are only counted from when they're 12 miles off the coast of [laughter] California. It's just so crazy. >> Yeah. Change the finish line. Yeah. >> The taxes add like a dollar a gallon and then there's this carb standard. >> It's about 60. Yeah. It's just It's more like 61 I thought or 65. I can't remember exactly. It's just going up
[00:41:57] again. Yeah. Yeah. >> Most of the most of the in most of the $2 premium as it were for California is regulatory, not taxes. >> Yes. And most of the oil that's been pulled out of the ground in California, we got the easy stuff out. what's left is generally dirtier or thicker >> process. No, it's not right. I've had a lots of conversation with the industry on this and the the the problem is that you've got fields that could be
[00:42:23] producing but and actually it's a good example of what you can do as governor without the legislature because the way that they've been shutting down production is not legislatively is through an agency of the state government called Calgen the California Department of Geologic and Energy Management and it's simply a question of refusing to issue permits for the various stages of production including including maintaining existing wells or
[00:42:46] expanding. There's a process called sidetracking where you can take a well that's doing five barrels a day and increase it to 100 whatever um and then drilling new wells in existing fields and they're denying permits for all of that. Actually, you can pretty much turn that around overnight by appointing people who are pro- energy who will issue permits because I think there's a simple common sense rule here, which is
[00:43:10] as long as we're using oil and gas in California, let's use our oil and gas rather than importing it. But the my conversations with the industry is that I said, &quot;Look, what could what could we do if we had a kind of green light from a governor that and and a regulatory framework that just says, &quot;Let's do what we can. Let's produce what we can.&quot; The estimate that I've got from them is that we can double production every two years
[00:43:35] in California. If we're already one of the big gas burning states with the worst air or previously my state, you know, then you're gonna get into the circular conversation with the public of do we want the air quality to decrease? And most people would say the EV credits were actually a good thing because we had 20 years of smog going down. Even though we're still worse, it's gotten a lot better. So that smog is not to do
[00:43:59] with carbon, but that there's a real mis mis misunderstand. So the completely agree on air quality and and one of the major advances that has been made is on picking the LA basin is on smog. Obviously I wasn't here then but people say you know it's really bad and now it's not. You have clean skies and you can see Mount Baldi or whatever. You know it's like a really different world but that's nothing to do with carbon
[00:44:22] emissions. Um and so and that that's to do with actually the the main driver of this of the air quality improvements in California actually car technology. Um and if you look at EVs I mean EV penetration even with all the subsidies and so on. It's incredibly low in California. So you can't you can't um point it's about four or 5% something like that tiny. So actually the improvements in air quality, dramatic
[00:44:50] improvements that you saw in LA were nothing to do with EVs. >> Steve, I want to switch topics to education. This is a thing that we on the pod talk about a lot. We're all the byproduct of a pretty fantastic education system, affordable education, frankly, at every level. We had options to pay for it. >> We all had access to things like AP to really distinguish ourselves. >> Even Jason. >> Yeah. Um, [laughter]
[00:45:15] >> that's true. >> What's happening in the California education system? Why are we stripping away things like AP? And how do we tie compensation to outcomes? Because I think, >> yeah, >> a lot of us would want to pay teachers triple, but we'd want to tie it to something that says, &quot;Wow, the test scores are going up. Our kids can read. Our kids can write. Our kids can compete on the global stage.&quot; And it just feels
[00:45:39] like we are moving backwards. >> We really are. And it's just I mean the numbers are horrific. I mean, you've got we first of all, we we spend nearly the most of any state per student right now in this year. It's about 27,000 just it's more than just over 27,000 per student per year in California. If you take the average out the money and we get some of the worst results in the country le I think the number for you
[00:46:04] know 40 it's 47% that meet basic standards in English and reading so less than half meet basic standards for math it's 35%. So twothirds do not meet the standards. It's just an insane level of failure considering we spend nearly the most. And I think again you've got to look at this in a practical way. There's a long-term structural reform that I think we need because the the driver of this is really the grip on the government
[00:46:32] school monopoly of the teacher unions who increasingly have been driven by ideological factors. You saw that for example in the pandemic when you saw the you know the longest and most destructive school closures in the country and I was always struck by LA the teacher union in LA when they put out their demands for reopening schools it was just a list of polit was a wealth tax Medicare for all something about
[00:46:59] Palestine you know it's just they've completely become an organized political interest group that's about their members and broader political goals rather than anything to do with the interests of students and kids in school. So I think that the fact that you got this monopoly is of of the public tool system controlled by the unions. They of course in turn control the politicians as I mentioned earlier the number one donor to democrat