[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the All-In Interview Show. We're very lucky today to have a candidate for the governor of California who is extremely unique in a number of ways. First of all, he's a Republican. And second, he's a Brit. [laughter] Welcome to the program, Steve Hilton. You've decided to increase the degree of difficulty in two ways, but you're polling fantastic. You've got five or six people
[00:00:28] in the polls. So, >> he's leading the field. >> You're uh leading the field. Obviously, it's going to get narrowed a bit when the Democrats shiv a couple more people and get them out of the race and then pick their eventual winner in their cobble um whenever that happens when Nancy Pelosi picks who's running. But, uh Steve, [laughter] maybe you could start by Sorry guys, I got jokes. But, Steve, maybe you could introduce yourself a bit
[00:00:52] and tell us why you're running. >> Well, hang on. Can I just say just after that great intro where you just tried to kill my chances in just a couple of words. Thanks a lot, Jason. Really appreciate it. >> Let me actually tee this up. I've known Steve since 2012 2013 when he and his wife Rachel Wetstone moved to Silicon Valley. Rachel worked at Facebook initially and then she worked with you Jason at Uber and then has had a great
[00:01:14] run and then Steve similarly. And you said it in a funny way, but ultimately this is an incredible land of immigrants and Steve has a really compelling story. So before we jump into the questions, I know your background, Steve, but I do think it's important go back to your parents, your mom, how you grew up, >> and just set the stage for how you made it out from the way you started because I think that's important and then how
[00:01:43] you got to the United States and why. >> Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. And you're right. We've known each other a long time now. And it's a great joy to be here. By the way, just want to say it's a great joy to be on a show where I don't have to wear the the suit and shirt. And you know, that's one of the one of the things about running for governor that um I'm I'm loving most of it, but dressing up is not the favorite
[00:02:04] part for me. So, it's great to be with you. I thought for this show, you know, we got to get it right. I think that the back the more I think about my background, the more I think it is really important um in in terms of how I see things and what I want to get done. Um my parents are Hungarian. They were refugees from communism and I grew up in in England in a town called Brighton on the south coast and you know we just had
[00:02:27] a regular workingass um immigrant aspirational family story I guess. You know it was my my parents actually split up when I was young. My stepfather's also a Hungarian. He had an amazing story. He was um a refugee as well, but literally ran across the border. He grew up in a small village on the west side of Hungary. And in 1956 when you had the Soviet invasion, he tells this amazing story. They heard on the radio, &quot;The Russians are coming.&quot;
[00:02:53] And he and his brother and some friends from his school, he was 14 years old, like one year younger than my youngest son right now. Um and they just ran. They literally ran for they said, &quot;Right, the we want our freedom.&quot; and they ran to the border, barbed wire fences, minefields got shot at by the guards. All that half of them were killed and he ended up in a refugee camp in Austria and from then to England. So
[00:03:16] all of that I guess just gives you that sense of real appreciation for actual for freedom for freedom and opportunity. And [snorts] I grew up in England, worked very hard, ended up at Oxford University, but my first job was project manager for a construction company. I just wanted to earn money. I just wanted to, you know, get out. I think that's exactly the right phrase that you used and um that's been the story. You know,
[00:03:42] after Oxford, I went to work for a little bit of the Conservative Party in England. Then I worked all I worked for an big ad agency, worked all around the world, started my own business, couple of um offshoots of that, including a couple of restaurants. then went back into politics when my friend David Cameron, who I'd met many years before, um had gone into politics, got elected to parliament. I helped run his campaign
[00:04:06] for the leadership of the British Conservative Party, won that election and then wor with him to get the Conservatives elected when he became prime minister in 2010. Uh joined him in 10 Downing Street. I was senior adviser to the prime minister. Most of my job was really focused on trying to implement our uh reform program. And then in 2012, that's when we met. We moved here because Rachel, actually before Facebook, she was at Google. Um,
[00:04:31] and she had this big global job at Google. She was running um comms and public policy for Google worldwide. I had my job in number 10. It was actually when our second son was born. Um, it just there was a lot, you know, the travel for her and the time difference. So that's why we moved here. And I don't know, should I stop there or do you want me to keep >> Well, you're also notably you became naturalized. You're a citizen of the
[00:04:53] United States now. So you have dual citizenship. less people are confused by the accent. You're running for governor and you're a citizen of >> Let's talk about your political setup. So, being a child of Hungarian immigrants raising communism, you're going to hear a certain version of what the role of the state is versus what the role of the family or the individual is. Then, growing up in the UK, I'm sure your attitudes either get cemented or
[00:05:20] change. >> Give us the setup. What is the political evolution of Steve Hilton? what did he believe and then what does he believe now and what has shaped these beliefs. >> It's really I think it goes back to just around the when I first really started thinking about it all it was just as Margaret Thatcher was coming to power and you'd had the 70s in England were a disaster and a decade that was just the the economy was completely stagnant and
[00:05:49] slurotic unions ran everything. Um there was this period called the winter of discontent in 1979 when you had massive strikes um famously you know the dead went unburied and trash was piled up in the street just real collapse of everything and that's what thatcher came in to fix and I really did identify with that as well as with the very clear stand against communism and so really she was funny enough when I was thinking
[00:06:21] about the the video that I made to to launch my campaign about a year ago now. We ended up putting that in there and I thought, well, actually that was the thing that got me going. I was totally inspired by her, but also the focus that she had on business and enterprise and hard work. And remember my stepfather, I mean, they weren't at all political, by the way. It wasn't like some household where we talked about politics. It
[00:06:45] really wasn't. But he had this thing that stuck in my mind when he talked about the like in in England you've got the Conservative Party equivalent of the Republicans and for the Democrats it's the Labor Party and I remember he just used to say Mrs. Thatcher's for the workers and labor are for the layabouts and I just this phrase stuck in my mind about the importance of work and hustle and I think about that all the time.
[00:07:12] >> Where do you think California is if you contrast? Well, this is the this is the point I was just about to get to is we really are there. There are so many things I see in California today that are exactly like the UK in the 70s. You've got the massive dominance of the unions in policym. You've got a slurotic economy. You've got massively high taxation. I mean it was higher then the at one point I think the top rate when
[00:07:39] you add in the wealth taxes in the UK was literally 98%. Um but you had that confiscatory taxation and top rate of 60% and so on. So very very similar and actually funny enough um someone Mike Moritz actually sent me a report that um someone had done about the UK today and and again there's just these eerie parallels with just how how impossible it is to do anything in the UK to build anything. the overregulation. When I
[00:08:11] read this report, it just is exactly like California today. By the way, one thing, Jason, just to be clear, I am a proud American now, but I'm not I actually renounced my UK citizenship. I did that because >> I just wanted to be clear that I'm just to borrow the title of the show, >> you be all in. All in. Literally, I re I think it's really important everyone knows that and I am. >> And you have some to get into some maybe
[00:08:34] some policy. Thanks for the background there. You have some unique uh policy positions. Taxes, I think, is the most unique and dare I say pretty populist. You want to have no state tax in California for people with under $100,000 in income and then a flat tax for everybody over 100K of but 7.5%. >> How is that possible? And is that something you've studied? And where did this come from? the tax plan that um that I put out there, that was the first
[00:09:08] day of my campaign. I think of it as proworker and prog growth. And I think we need both of those things because if you look at what's going on in California today, just big picture. Obviously, you can look at the data that's a real economic disaster. I'm not sure people appreciate just how bad things are because hiding behind that data point of having the fourth largest economy in the world, which is true, and
[00:09:30] obviously I'm proud of that. I want California to be big and successful and growing. But that fourth biggest economy data point underneath that you've got this with the state with the highest unemployment rate in the country and the highest poverty rate in the country tied with Louisiana. There's a United Way report just the other about about a year ago. They do it every two years. sort of an assessment of of of of living
[00:09:55] conditions in California. And they found that over a third of Californians cannot afford to meet basic needs. And so the starting point for my tax plan is what can we do quickly to help people who are really struggling. Um if you think about it, the working poor who aren't particularly um being taken care of by the welfare system. They're working incredibly hard, but they're they're being squeezed by all these costs. We
[00:10:20] have the highest gas prices in the country as you know the highest electric bills everywhere except for Hawaii. Um housing costs the highest in the country insurance all these costs are so high. So what can you do to help working people quickly and so the starting point was and what's affordable the $100,000 mark. I remember when when we I I was just playing around with numbers actually I did it with um some
[00:10:47] economists from the Hoover Institution where I was a fellow the first couple of years that we moved to I taught at Stanford um including in the public policy department also the D school at Stanford but I was also a fellow at the at Hoover and so we did the math on the tax plan there just just about a year ago and so the that first part first 100 grand taxfree actually in many counties in California today the def the official
[00:11:11] definition for low income is 100,000. Um, which so that number may sound very high to people in other parts of the country. It's actually the definition in in a lot of counties of low income. So you've got people earning 70 grand, 80 grand, 90 grand in California. They are paying 9.3% state income tax. That rate is higher than the top rate in most states in America. So to me that's ridiculous when you've also got all
[00:11:37] these other taxes that those exact people are paying sales tax, property tax, gas tax, all of those are the highest in the country. >> So cutting taxes this significantly means you have to then also cut spending. >> Yes. But can I just do the other part of it? >> I just did the other part which is the 7.5% flat tax. I just thought, you know, when you look at the the the the facts about economic performance, the fact
[00:12:05] that, you know, for example, Chief Executive Magazine ranks us and has done for the last 10 years or so the 50th out of 50 for business climate. A big driver of that is tax. And I'm sure we'll get into the the insane proposed billionaires tax and you know, all these things that are driving wealth creation out of our state and business investment out of our state. So it's not enough just to take care of or give some relief
[00:12:27] to people who are on the lower end of the scale. You've got to actually have a pro-investment, progrowth tax framework. And so apart from anything else, the complexity is ridiculous of our tax system. These endless different rates is ridiculously complicated. Um and that itself is a cost. The bureaucracy and hassle associated with that. That's why I think a flat tax makes sense. Remember this is in you know in the context of
[00:12:50] federal taxes, all these other taxes. It's not the only component, but the cost is the to get to that cost, you've got to reduce spending exactly as you say. And basically the the the cost of that in total is about an 18.5% reduction in revenue, which takes us back it takes us down about 60 billion, something like that, which is not even going back to what the budget was just before the pandemic. They've actually d
[00:13:17] if you look at the budget of the state of California, it's nearly doubled in the last 10 years. is in the last 5 years it's gone up something like 75%. And so this is just bringing the budget back to achieve that entire tax cut would bring the budget back just to where it was roughly before the pandemic. >> Let me just summarize. So if you make between 0 and $100,000 a year as a California resident under your plan, no
[00:13:42] tax, >> no state income tax. >> No state income tax. If you make $100,000 in a dollar and above, you pay 7.5% flat tax. >> Yes, that's the concept. >> Okay. How many Californians does that impact? So, what percentage of the population now get that affordance if you were to >> million the tax numbers usually only households and so it's about 7 million households would benefit from from the under 100,000. Do you know how many that is as a
[00:14:14] percentage? >> Well, working house, we got 40 million people. I think that's about um probably just over a third, something like that. >> Okay. So, a third of homes now essentially go to zero tax. >> State income tax. Yeah, there's all these other taxes that >> now the push back would be if we then take it dollar for dollar from the operating budget, programs will suffer. >> And to to your point, your comment is
[00:14:39] I'm putting words in your mouth, but you filled them in. Well, not really because we're just going to go back to 2019 2020 budgets and the difference was we spent a dollar in 2020, we now spend $2 and nothing has changed. So, yeah, go from $2 back to $150 and everything should be fine is your point. >> Yes. And I'd actually go further than that. So, first of all, what we've seen happen to the budget is basically the
[00:15:01] expansion that we saw in in the in the pandemic and afterwards is gone baked into the baseline, which is totally unsustainable. And so we got to get back to even even without tax cuts, I would argue you've got to get back to a more reasonable growth in spending because we go bankrupt. Um, as we're seeing with these deficits that that we're getting even when in times when we're not in recession and taking money out of the
[00:15:23] reserves, out of the rainy day fund to plug the gaps, which is what they're doing, totally irresponsible fiscally. But actually, it's more than that. Even if you just if if you don't change anything in the composition of the spending and just get back to where we were, that gives you scope for a major reduction in tax. But the other part of it is what we're discovering in terms of where the money is actually going. And
[00:15:47] so obviously the whole fraud story has exploded as a national political and economic story um ever since Nick Shirley's first investigation in Minnesota just around the time of Thanksgiving last year. Well, we've been making our own um contribution to that. So, a few months ago, I set up our I literally called it Cal Do California Department of Government Efficiency. I know that's a controversial brand, but you know, then the idea of it efficient
[00:16:15] government is something I think everyone would support. So, I thought why not use that because everyone knows what it is. So we've been just looking at the published data on spending to find examples and to make an estimate of the total amount of of fraud, waste and abuse in the system. And we've now published four separate fraud reports out of Cal Doge. When I say we, by the way, it's I mean this is a longer story
[00:16:40] we can get into, but one of the ways I think I'm running this campaign differently is that I'm actually putting together a team uh before the election of the of in terms of others who will run with me for statewide office because you've got some very important positions alongside the governor that are going to be crucial in putting us back on track. In this instance, the state controller is very important because the state