[00:14:39] I'm putting words in your mouth, but you filled them in. Well, not really because we're just going to go back to 2019 2020 budgets and the difference was we spent a dollar in 2020, we now spend $2 and nothing has changed. So, yeah, go from $2 back to $150 and everything should be fine is your point. >> Yes. And I'd actually go further than that. So, first of all, what we've seen happen to the budget is basically the
[00:15:01] expansion that we saw in in the in the pandemic and afterwards is gone baked into the baseline, which is totally unsustainable. And so we got to get back to even even without tax cuts, I would argue you've got to get back to a more reasonable growth in spending because we go bankrupt. Um, as we're seeing with these deficits that that we're getting even when in times when we're not in recession and taking money out of the
[00:15:23] reserves, out of the rainy day fund to plug the gaps, which is what they're doing, totally irresponsible fiscally. But actually, it's more than that. Even if you just if if you don't change anything in the composition of the spending and just get back to where we were, that gives you scope for a major reduction in tax. But the other part of it is what we're discovering in terms of where the money is actually going. And
[00:15:47] so obviously the whole fraud story has exploded as a national political and economic story um ever since Nick Shirley's first investigation in Minnesota just around the time of Thanksgiving last year. Well, we've been making our own um contribution to that. So, a few months ago, I set up our I literally called it Cal Do California Department of Government Efficiency. I know that's a controversial brand, but you know, then the idea of it efficient
[00:16:15] government is something I think everyone would support. So, I thought why not use that because everyone knows what it is. So we've been just looking at the published data on spending to find examples and to make an estimate of the total amount of of fraud, waste and abuse in the system. And we've now published four separate fraud reports out of Cal Doge. When I say we, by the way, it's I mean this is a longer story
[00:16:40] we can get into, but one of the ways I think I'm running this campaign differently is that I'm actually putting together a team uh before the election of the of in terms of others who will run with me for statewide office because you've got some very important positions alongside the governor that are going to be crucial in putting us back on track. In this instance, the state controller is very important because the state
[00:17:03] controller is an elected position has the legal power to audit any organization receiving state money and to stop the flow of money if there's any um suspicion of improper spending. So, there's a guy running with me called Herb Morgan and we've been doing this work together and we've published four reports now, three of them on individual examples of fraud. We can get into that in a second if you want to know some of
[00:17:29] the examples are really shocking. And then the fourth one was an estimate of the total and we just went through published data from the state auditor from Medicaid error rates and so on to make an estimate of the total amount of fraud. >> What did you find? >> Give us a couple of examples. >> Here's some specific examples. The second fraud report um with it's a classic $1 billion over the last 10 years 100 million every year since 2015.
[00:17:59] This is from the climate change mitigation fund which is part of the cap and trade system. This is actually gas taxes and search charges on electric bills and so on. 100 million a year was allocated to be spent on climate change mitigation. In this case, it was solar panels for lowincome apartment buildings. So, we actually tracked that money and um with an AI partner that can get all the reports and of that 1
[00:18:28] billion total in 10 years, the actual amount spent on the purported benefit here solar panel installation was 72 million. 928 million actually went to nonprofits doing all all the usual Democrat associated frankly, voter registration, um environmental justice campaigns, all that kind of stuff. The actual thing was mostly spent on that. That's $1 billion. The the first one was the cannabis tax, Proposition 64, legalizing cannabis.
[00:19:03] There's a tax associated with that supposed to be spent on um substance abuse prevention. We found $350 million that was supposed to be spent on substance abuse prevention. Again, going to this network of nonprofits, over 500 of them and small individual grants. When you look at what each of those organizations does, it's all the usual stuff, voter registration, activism. So the the third one was project home key
[00:19:29] that we we looked into which was the homelessness thing that they set up after the pandemic which was buying up property for homeless people um and sometimes can building new property for homeless people or converting hotels 3.8 8 billion that was on that one that we found. I mean there others have found other amounts um most of which went into the pockets of developers without any um real >> the California budget if I'm not
[00:19:56] mistaken 350 odd billion >> 350 billion 349 this year. Yeah. >> What percentage of it in your best estimation with you and your team do you think is inefficient fraudulent wasted? Well, our number over the last five years total our estimate was 425 billion. So averaged over the years it's about 80 billion a year. So that's so it's around, you know, 20% or so. That's unbelievable. >> Yeah. And now just to bring some reality
[00:20:23] to the situation, you would have to get through the legislature, which is both controlled by Democrats. You can't unilaterally as the governor just say, &quot;Hey, we're cutting these services.&quot; And we had a governor Schwarzenegger who tried this very thing. He had to move to the center. You of course I believe in California have a line item veto. So you have some balance there. >> But this is fantastic for people to
[00:20:51] maybe get a reprieve from taxes. You're going to get a major fight with Democrats to cut any spending. What's your plan there if you were to win? >> So Jason, I a couple of things. You're right about that. Um, and I'm very thoughtful about the realities of these things and I always make clear that I think certainly on the tax plan that taxes definitely you can't do that without the legislature. I think that actually we'll get a we there's a
[00:21:21] possibility of a consensus around some of these items where we can actually work together with the legislature to make it happen. One indicator of that is actually one of my Democrat opponents in the governor's race, Katie Porter. Um, actually, you know, we were doing a debate the other week in Fresno and she just said, we were talking about affordability or whatever it was and she said, &quot;Well, I'm I'm I've decided I'm
[00:21:42] stealing Steve Hilton's tax plan. I agree with him. First 100 grand tax-free, and I think we should take good ideas where we find them.&quot; So, this is an interesting example that I think that part of it I think we may be able to actually persuade the legislature to do. >> And then I noticed she yelled at you and said, &quot;Get the hell out of her shot.&quot; >> [laughter] >> her video >> except a stronger word than eight.
[00:22:04] Exactly. Than hell. Um so the the attitude that I've got on that whole question of the legislature is that when I'm elected that's and I'm sure your eyebrows are raised and saying what are you talking about? It's impossible for Republicans to win and we'll get into that. But I'm I'm doing this on the basis that I will and I'm preparing to actually start implementing the big changes we need to make um in a thoughtful manner on day one because
[00:22:30] otherwise what's the point of doing this? Steve, do you think that there's legislative agreement or momentum to give you the win? Even though to your point, I think it's quite significant that the Democrats would signal that it's a legitimate policy proposal, but do you think that if you win, people would see the forest from the trees and realize how important it would be to take salaries under 100,000 to no state
[00:22:54] income tax? Look, the we have I've seen the, you know, the Democrat arguments now up front many many times. We've done a lot of events together, some of the televised debates, many more that aren't televised. We're literally all saying the same thing in all the in terms of the diagnosis of the problem. >> It's incredibly expensive to live here. People can't, you know, people are really struggling. The business climate
[00:23:19] is a disaster. We're massively overregulated. We can't build anything. everything takes too long, everything's too complicated. You know, there's a there's a real consensus about diagnosing the problem among all the candidates. And so I think that that doesn't mean that we agree, of course, on the solutions. I would argue that the Democrats all, you know, in some version of more of the same actually, despite
[00:23:44] what they say about the problems, but I think that um there are certain things where we will be able to get agreement. I also think that when you have a situation where you have the first Republican governor elected for 20 years, that really will change the dynamic in Sacramento, I think it'll it actually may, >> you know, loosen things loosen things up a little bit because I think that there are people there in the legislature who
[00:24:10] really understand that things have gone too far. Some of them have said it to me personally, Democrats there, but they feel constrained by the current political situation, the machine being in control. They can't really move and and I think that'll shake things up a little bit. That's one point. Secondly, you know, I really do have experience working across party lines like this. I think that I'll be able to bring some of
[00:24:33] that into play. I mentioned earlier I worked in in 10 Downing Street, senior adviser to the prime minister. He was a conservative prime minister, but it was a coalition government. Um, and I literally shared an office in 10 Downing Street with my opposite number from another party and we would, you know, hash things out and argue and, you know, we were part of the team that negotiated a coalition agreement and then tried to
[00:24:54] implement it. And I think that those skills of actually putting something together where you don't agree about everything, but you can make some things happen. I think it'll be useful in this situation. And I think we can I mean, look, everyone agrees. we call going like this in California. >> And it's not farical to think a Republican can't win here. Pete Wilson did two terms. Schwarzenegger did two terms. That's 16, I guess, of the last
[00:25:19] 36 years. It is completely conceivable that a Republican could win. And you and Katie Porter have the same plan. I think Chad Biano has the same plan, which is under 100,000. All of you agree no taxes. That you're all attacking affordability. They don't believe in cutting services though. They want to increase taxes on businesses, if I'm correct. And so, why is that plan not as good as yours, I guess, is the question.
[00:25:45] Which one do you think would be more more appealing to the voters? Would the voters I think they'll all agree. Paying less taxes, fantastic. Makes you more competitive with Florida and Texas. But if they had their brothers, they're probably going to want to see Google and Apple pay more in taxes and not lose their services. >> Yeah. But we're losing jobs. And I think that that's the consequence of of of squeezing
[00:26:09] um businesses and high earners more and more. And you're seeing it right now. You're seeing the business exodus. Um if the billionaire tax proposal goes through, I mean that absolutely puts, you know, I think that's a just complete disaster for for the tech ecosystem and what we've built in Silicon Valley over the years and all the job creation and and wealth creation that comes with that. um you're seeing I mean I just
[00:26:34] it's not just everywhere you go in the state there are so many conversations you sit down with business people you know we we are we are on the brink of leaving I don't think people realize quite quite how near the cliff edge we are um and if and it's I give you another example we are I was just in Pomona the other day down in Southern California fantastic company sheet metal um it's an HVAC duct manufacturing it's
[00:26:57] exactly the kind of thing you'd want here they're union jobs actually it's a great um you know manufacturing facility they are making the these HVAC systems the air conditioning incredibly important as as you know for uh TSMC and these semiconductor factories and all these the high-end manufacturing that's happening in other states in and these these facilities now massive amounts of investment in the AI economy and and
[00:27:25] tech more broadly but none of it's happening in California I mean we just published our policy report on that today how we can get some of that that full stack of those jobs in California. But that company l they said to me since the the facilities are all now being built in other pl in other states. We're on the brink of moving our facility to be closer because what's the point of making this stuff in California. It's
[00:27:47] not going to be used because nothing's happening nothing's going to be happening in California. So you have to stop this squeeze on business. You really do. >> Let me ask about the broader cost of living for a second. Probably the most impactful cost to people's lived experience is the cost of housing. >> Yeah. >> Double click into that for a second. For the 40 million residents of California, what is going on? Why are rents so high?
[00:28:17] Why are homes so expensive? And what can actually be done to make the cost of living and rent cheaper? So the thing this particular issue I think almost captures better than anything else the underlying structural reasons why everything is so difficult in California and so expensive because you got these three structural forces that I think underpin the problem and show why a Democrat can't fix it. And the three
[00:28:52] things are union power, litigation and climate dogma. and they all come together in the housing story. The first part of the story is that we're just not building enough homes for the number of jobs that we're creating and the size of our population. It's a classic supply and demand situation. Now, within that, there are certain, you know, wrinkles. You could point out that because of rent control, which has got completely out of
[00:29:20] control, there are a lot of empty properties in California that could be used to house people, but they're not because landlords don't want to don't want to do it because the the rights have gone have swung so far in favor of tenants. But I don't think that's the major driver. The major driver is the fact that we just haven't built enough housing of different kinds. And if you go through the reasons for that and why
[00:29:45] it's so expensive, it brings into play these three factors. First of all, it just costs more to build anything in California. The same exact floor plan, house, apartment building, industrial building, whatever it is, cost cost two or three times more to build in other in in California than in neighboring states. The first reason is the building codes, the actual requirements for construction which is way more ownorous
[00:30:09] driven by climate dogma that actually doesn't really provide much specific. What does that mean climate dogma? >> Well, you have to install here we are >> because like Nevada's hot and droughtridden and Arizona has issues. So what is it that we say that those states don't say? So when you build apartments or when you when you build parking you have to put in EV charging um and the scale of what's required for
[00:30:36] the EV charging just makes it more expensive. You have to you know like you do a parking structure they have to reinforce the floors. The bays have to be wider just it adds you can have you you have fewer bays per structure. Um there's the specific cost associated with that. um solar panels, we talked about that earlier in terms of low-inccome apartments that the that taxes are paying for. Um developers have
[00:31:00] to pay for that as well. Um insulation, um energy efficiency, all these things are good. And I think that's pretty much the story of California, which is things that start with good intentions actually end up being taken to an extreme where it just makes it too expensive to build at a rate that people can afford to buy the properties. And the other two are really that SQA where anybody can sue on behalf >> exactly the private right of action
[00:31:26] under SQA. So that and and but let's unpack that because that brings together the three things climate um litigation and unions because see the California environmental quality act itself is is a nightmare in terms of this the amount of regulation you have to comply with the private right of action means anyone can sue 70% of SQA lawsuits are used to block housing most of those lawsuits are filed by unions they're used as leverage
[00:31:53] to negotiate pro what they call project labor agreement ments where you have an agreement for the site and usually they have one or one of both one or two of these components both of which sound great skilled and trained workforce which means union only so it's a closed shop and prevailing wage again sounds very good but it's two or three times market rate wages so both of those things inflate the cost often I've