[00:44:50] improvements that you saw in LA were nothing to do with EVs. >> Steve, I want to switch topics to education. This is a thing that we on the pod talk about a lot. We're all the byproduct of a pretty fantastic education system, affordable education, frankly, at every level. We had options to pay for it. >> We all had access to things like AP to really distinguish ourselves. >> Even Jason. >> Yeah. Um, [laughter]
[00:45:15] >> that's true. >> What's happening in the California education system? Why are we stripping away things like AP? And how do we tie compensation to outcomes? Because I think, >> yeah, >> a lot of us would want to pay teachers triple, but we'd want to tie it to something that says, &quot;Wow, the test scores are going up. Our kids can read. Our kids can write. Our kids can compete on the global stage.&quot; And it just feels
[00:45:39] like we are moving backwards. >> We really are. And it's just I mean the numbers are horrific. I mean, you've got we first of all, we we spend nearly the most of any state per student right now in this year. It's about 27,000 just it's more than just over 27,000 per student per year in California. If you take the average out the money and we get some of the worst results in the country le I think the number for you
[00:46:04] know 40 it's 47% that meet basic standards in English and reading so less than half meet basic standards for math it's 35%. So twothirds do not meet the standards. It's just an insane level of failure considering we spend nearly the most. And I think again you've got to look at this in a practical way. There's a long-term structural reform that I think we need because the the driver of this is really the grip on the government
[00:46:32] school monopoly of the teacher unions who increasingly have been driven by ideological factors. You saw that for example in the pandemic when you saw the you know the longest and most destructive school closures in the country and I was always struck by LA the teacher union in LA when they put out their demands for reopening schools it was just a list of polit was a wealth tax Medicare for all something about
[00:46:59] Palestine you know it's just they've completely become an organized political interest group that's about their members and broader political goals rather than anything to do with the interests of students and kids in school. So I think that the fact that you got this monopoly is of of the public tool system controlled by the unions. They of course in turn control the politicians as I mentioned earlier the number one donor to democrat
[00:47:27] politicians of these government unions including the teacher unions. And so you got to break that grip. So I think that long-term the answer is to move in the direction of school choice which I've always been a strong advocate of. You're seeing that school choice revolution across the country now. many states moving very rapidly in the direction with really good results. It's not a panacea. Um but I think that that is the
[00:47:48] long-term structural change you need, but that takes a long time and it's going to be very very hard to get that moving in California given the fact that the teacher unions basically control the legislature through the Democrat politicians they put there. So there are some practical things that we've got to do immediately to improve these basic standards. And here we got to look at what works elsewhere. And you see a lot
[00:48:12] of lot of attention now on Mississippi. Rightly so, because for onethird of their spend per student than California, their results are spectacularly better. And it's really happened in the last 10 years. And there's some simple practical things that they do. Number one is how you teach kids to read. There's a technique of to of reading instruction. I mean, this was a debate I remember having back in the day in England in the
[00:48:37] '9s, and it's pretty much settled then, which is there's a technique called phonics. It's a way to teach kids to read, and it's totally clearly established as the most effective. It's barely used in California schools at all. It's like in a very small proportion of schools of public schools. So, that's something that the governor can drive forward through the state board of education where you appoint all the members. Secondly, in Mississippi,
[00:49:01] they introduce something very common sense, which is, as everyone in education says, up to about third grade, you're learning to read. And then from fourth grade, you're reading to learn. And if you can't read, you can't learn. And so there's widespread consensus that reading by third grade, by the end of third grade, is incredibly important benchmark. In Mississippi, if you don't read by, you not don't pass the basic
[00:49:24] reading test by end of third grade. They give you a bit of help over the summer and if you still don't make it, you repeat the year. They don't let you go forward. That single change has transformed their results. And then your point about accountability also happens there where they give and and this is something else that we could implement here which is taking the publicly available test scores and data but
[00:49:47] really assigning it in a very visible way to individual teachers and individual schools. And that's one of the proposals I've got in my campaign, which is a grade for every school and a grade for every teacher so we can reward the good ones and remove the bad ones. >> Two more topics that Californians are very passionate about and have a lot of opinions about. I think one is pretty challenging and the other one seems
[00:50:12] pretty easy and other states have handled it where it's easier. Crime and then homelessness. uh crime obviously as a society we've seen violent crime go down over the long arc of our lifetimes in the last 40 or 50 years but California still 30% more violent than the rest of the country so we definitely have a violence problem specific to California and if you live in the major cities San Francisco Los Angeles they
[00:50:38] let people out for petty crimes under $850 there seems to and we see going to a drugstore everything's locked up so there is a feeling and a lot of debates over the numbers that there's a lot more property crime. Some people claim people don't report it anymore. That was my lived experience in California. What is your take on crime and then we'll go to homelessness? >> Yeah, I mean it's just it's this classic
[00:51:03] thing in California where they seem to be brilliant at passing laws, right? Every year more and more laws, more and more bloat and bureaucracy, more on nanny state nonsense. Last session, for example, they passed, this is one session, 1,118 bills. One that that's the number of bills that the legislature passed. I we did an thing outside the state capital. I mean, I'm not very tall. We printed them all out. It's like double my
[00:51:31] height. I mean, just ridiculous. The point I'm making is really good at passing laws, but not very good at enforcing them. there's just something missing in terms of the app of the willingness to just enforce the law. That's going to be one of the main points I make in terms of homelessness. But when you get to crime, there's just this attitude. I mean, there's something off about how the left has has has seen
[00:51:57] this issue. And just when you think it's, you know, the worst excesses of defund the police and all that have receded, you've now got them popping up. What is it this new thing? microl looting, right? Oh, microl looting. Isn't the New York Times and Slack podcast are going on about, oh, it's fine cuz it's just social justice and we we're allowed to kind of basically steal things cuz it's okay. It's just unbelievable subversion of basic
[00:52:22] >> um values and morality. Just unbelievable on crime. It's very decentralized in terms I mean there's some state things that need to be d remember the law that you're talking about that legalized theft up to $950 a day that has that part has been overturned that was Prop 47 which was a few years ago has been overturned by Prop 36 which was overwhelmingly passed in 2024 by about 70% but of course it's not being properly implemented. Gavin
[00:52:49] Newsome was against it and so were most Democrats in the state. the people passed it anyway, but now there's real resistance to enforcing it, which is ridiculous in terms of the overall picture though, it is very localized. You know, you've got local police forces and sheriff's department and so on. So, my focus has been well, what can you do as governor? And the one of the biggest drivers I think that's that's caused the
[00:53:15] problem is is really started with Jerry Brown before Gavin Newsome. Gavin Newsome's accelerated it, which is the prison closure program. They've they've they've they've basically al also this is classic California. They've reduced the number of prison places by half. Guess what happened to the budget? It doubled. >> Not [laughter] quite not quite that bad, but like it's a classic. They double they cut the numbers in half. Double the
[00:53:40] budget. But the point, the serious point is that you've had tens of thousands of really dangerous violent criminals either released directly into the community or more or or more, you know, um destructively for this for the system transferred to county jails which are now completely overcrowded. Um and therefore at the local level, the whole system is aware that you've had all these transfers from state prison. the
[00:54:06] system is full and so there's no capacity and that really undermines the kind of accountability that judges and prosecutors would want to seek at the local level because they know the jails are full and so that in turns undermines law enforcement because they say what's the point I mean I hear this term all the time from law enforcement around the state I'm traveling the state the whole time they talk about catch and release
[00:54:29] as the basic operating rule for local for the kinds of crimes you're talking about you catch them they just release nothing happens And so that that undermines law enforcement. They think, why bother if we're just going to bring these people in and nothing's going to happen to them. And that in turn undermines public confidence because everyone sees that and then they, as you just said, don't bother reporting it. So a simple thing
[00:54:50] we can do that is completely within the governor's control is stop and reverse the prison closure program, which is what I've committed to doing is to increase prison capacity in California. That means that you can relieve the pressure on county jails, but also that means that you can use the prisons for what they should be doing. Not just bringing accountability. You commit a crime, you should be punished, but also
[00:55:11] rehabilitation. We've got one with not the worst, but one of the worst recidivism rates in the whole country. And if you had if you if we did one of the best one of the best states is Virginia, they're they're less than half what we have. that would massively reduce crime if you could just get, you know, there's that, you got to take seriously the rehabilitation part. I mean, a huge proportion of prisoners in
[00:55:33] these jails, they can't read properly. Many have dyslexia. You know, you you've got to have a really serious view on it. And they just don't. They have an ideological view. I think that is the problem with so many of these issues. It's ideology. In this case, it's decarceration. Can't have people in prison. Prison is racist. Criminal justice reform. All this ideology instead of just practical things to keep people safe.
[00:55:55] >> Newsome shut down four or five of the California state prisons. You're absolutely correct. Uh, according to my notes, and then it peaked in 2006. California had 165,000 people in state prisons. Now 93,000 people. So, it is definitely a trend. Uh, and I think a lot of folks who are living here or who were living in California where I used to live are not in favor of that. Uh, looking at homelessness, is it
[00:56:19] intractable in California? >> One thing I'll just point out if people are interested in digging in further to some of the things I've been saying. There's a couple of places you can go for real depth on this, which is the last three years, um, I've been traveling the state and kind of learning about this stuff and developing solutions. And I had a policy organization for that called Golden Toto together. goldento together.com and you
[00:56:42] can find policy reports on many of these areas we've discussed and more including one on homelessness called ending homelessness. And actually my real partner in developing that was someone called Michelle Ste who's done a lot of work on this. She actually run um homeless shelters and and really at the at the kind of street level of this for many many years. also someone called Tom Wolf who's given me a lot of great
[00:57:05] advice. He's in San Francisco, a recovering addict um a recovered addict who's who's just fantastic. >> He's very vocal on Twitter and uh very common sense approach. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. Okay. So, it's very simply I'll try and sort of capture it simply. It's a it's three points. Number one, it actually already is illegal to live on and the homeless encampments already are illegal. They've always been illegal. Um it's another example of
[00:57:28] where we just got to enforce the law. Um for years local politicians in California hid behind a court ruling that is called the Boise ruling from many years ago which stated it's the ninth circuit ruling applies to the western states which is that the the statement there was you can you can't remove people from the street unless you have sufficient shelter available locally. And they used this to say we can't remove people because we don't
[00:57:55] have enough shelter. It didn't define what shelter was. They defined it as these permanent supportive housing units costing $900,000 a door, but it could have been, you know, a camp with CS. You know, there's no reason. But even that excuse has been lifted because there's a Supreme Court case called Grants Pass versus Oregon in 2024 overturned that. So there's no excuse. you you these people running local governments what they they they
[00:58:24] have the power and the legal authority to remove every single homeless encounter and they should and my argument is I'll give that once I'm elected I'll give them a certain amount of time and if they haven't done it then I'll use state law enforcement resources to take people off the streets and then you get to point two and three of the plan which is what do you you got to give people help in a compassionate way
[00:58:44] help them get their lives back on track so over 80% of people who are homeless have drug or alcohol problems s addiction or me severe mental health problems. So you got to deal with that. So the second part is drug and alcohol recovery. Got to you got to get people into recovery. That used to be the rule in California, rehab or jail. And we got to get back to that. It can't be an option. You got plenty of service
[00:59:06] providers who can do it. You got to require it. I mean last year even the de going back to our point about the legislature even the democrat legislature passed a bill called the sober housing act which would have taken a certain proportion of homeless spending and allocated it to uh shelter where you had a requirement was sobbriety vetoed that bill. It's unbelievable. So we got to have it 100% um sober requirement for any kind of
[00:59:33] state services on homelessness. The third part is mental health where honestly going back to the jails conversation, you talk to sheriffs around the state, they the number varies, but they say 50 I've heard as high as 70% of the people in their jails have severe mental health problems. That's where we are actually treating people with mental health problems. Either they're on the street or they're in jail is totally barbaric. And one of
[00:59:59] the reasons is that we when you're talking about the homeless population, obviously low-income people. So it's very much entwined when you talk about mental health care with Medicaid, with the federal system. And there's a rule in Medicaid that was set up right at the beginning when it was founded in the mid60s called the IMD rule, institutions of mental disease. And this was a time when they didn't want large mental
[01:00:22] asylums and whatever. The idea was you have small facilities in the community. So the rule is there is no Medicaid reimbursement to the states for any mental health care provided in a facility with more than 16 beds. It's a 16 bed rule. Of course, that makes the whole thing incredibly uneconomic and inefficient. Imagine if hospitals could only be 16 beds. How inefficient that would be. The first Trump administration
[01:00:47] created a waiver, the IMD waiver that states could apply for so you could get, you know, get around the rule. California. A lot of other states have have taken that up. California hasn't. There's plenty of money in the system. Like we've been saying, the budgets have are there. They've just been diverted into the wrong places. So, the third part of the plan is to take the money that's currently going into the homeless
[01:01:08] industrial complex, these ridiculous apartment units for people who should be either getting mental health care or recovery treatment. Take that money and put it into modern largescale mental health facilities. And then we can treat people. >> That's broad work. That's a great place for you to put a big magnifying glass because that's where there's massive amounts of corruption. People cannot believe how much we spend in this