[00:33:06] every year. And a bunch of programs are going to run out of money, including Social Security, which is projected to run out of money sometime between, call it 5 and 10 years from now. This is a classic debt debt spiral problem. You know, what is how much does Congress pay attention to this problem? Is it something that's talked about? Because a lot of the conversation seem to be about what the polls say, so that people can
[00:33:27] get elected again the next cycle, versus looking at this big looming debt problem we're facing, and how we're going to address it. Yeah, debt debt's a huge concern for me. I mean, you know, I'm I'm old enough to remember when a billion dollars meant something, or that was a lot of money. And now the trillions are becoming more kinds of it's not kind of like Social Security. Social Security, for example, now they
[00:33:52] just need to make some small small adjustments for actual on the actuarial kinds of things, and that could extend it well into the 20 2070s to the 2080s. Just small small kinds of things. That wouldn't require real leadership, and that would require them to just put down the partisan guns and just stop attacking each other and find a real solution for all of Americans. And now you'll never address debt until you both sides agree
[00:34:22] we're going to stop tearing each other apart. We're going to find a way forward. You know, I hope I hope more Americans want my views of why just turn it into just a professional wrestling or do you really want to find a better way? >> [laughter] >> And you know, like effectively if you turn Washington D.C. as the Jerry Springer show, you know, you asked me earlier what's the leader of the Democratic Party right
[00:34:50] now? I would say it's TDS. That that is that's driving the conversation. If he supports, you know, he could come out for ice cream and lazy Sundays and now suddenly Democrats would hate it. We would want to vote it down. Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's there's also a lot of discussion right now about fraud in the government. I don't know if you've seen these videos out of Minnesota and this guy Nick Sherry doing them out of California.
[00:35:15] Yeah, let me let me say that. Let me say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I absolutely. Like why can't you celebrate any journalist or any, you know, activist doing that? And what you know, Governor Newsom put out a disgusting video implying that he's, you know, a pedophile or he's that that. Like why? You know, like I mean like that's like kind of a smear. You know, like you can you may you want to disagree or but to
[00:35:42] imply that someone someone in one of the most gross kinds of terms like that. Well, it's like hey, shouldn't we agree like, you know, eliminate all the waste? If it exists under under my purview, let's eliminate it. Let's call that what it is. You know, I'm not going to call someone or imply that you're you're a pedophile or you're, you know, going after kids in gross ways. But what's crazy to me and so many other
[00:36:11] people that have seen these videos, it's to then see reactions from leaders in the Democratic Party saying, "We don't have a problem. This is racist. This is whatever." And and denouncing that the reports of this but when you see this fraud, it angers everyone. You're spending money as a taxpayer and then you're giving the money away to fraudsters. It's It's >> It should It should It should. Yeah, it should It should You should be angry.
[00:36:34] And, you know, like fraud can happen on both sides, but when it's identified, I don't care if it's in a Democratic state, like we should all just acknowledge maybe there is a problem here. This is part of the thing. If you tell voters that you're wrong or, you know, hey, it's no problem, there's nothing here, then you lose. And now that you you want to turn that into If you want to turn that into like the border, you know, with Democrats as in
[00:36:59] 2023, you know, we do that at our own peril. You're You're so rightly critical of so many of these points, John. Why are you still a Democrat? It passed. Yeah, it So, save just passed. My staffer just handed it to me. 51 >> kidding. Wow. They They went forward, huh? Yeah, it's going It's going forward. To debate, yeah. Yeah, it goes to the debate. Yeah. And so, what do you think will happen there? Will this last
[00:37:28] couple days, a week? I mean, how's this process going to go? I I have no idea. I I I am not going to pretend to know exactly how the next couple days are going to look. The question I asked just before that was, you know, you're rightly critical of so many of these positions that the Democratic Party leadership takes. Why are you still a Democrat? Have you thought about switching parties? Because I am a Democrat, and it's not
[00:37:51] because I've changed, it's because because, you know, parts of my party has changed right now. And that's that's where where I'm at. I'm going to continue to be an independent voice. I'm going to call balls and strikes. I'm always going to pick country over uh part of my base or what they demand. Yeah. One of the One of the clear rising themes right now in this country going into the the and probably going into '28 for the
[00:38:22] presidential election cycle is the massive wealth inequality in this country. Do you think we have massive wealth inequality and is it, you know, can you identify the origin? Where is this coming from? I don't I don't really know. But I I don't hate billionaires. I don't make them the problem. You know, that with Democrats we love billionaires if we're supporting our we're supporting our causes or they're they're
[00:38:48] underwriting, you know, things that are near and dear to us. In fact, we actually have a billionaire as a Democratic governor. You know, that doesn't mean he's an oligarch and trying to destroy America. You know, so like it's about trying to be more honest and stop attacking each other and find what we can agree on now. But we live in the kinds of attention economy and just you know, saying outlandish thing and
[00:39:14] making you know, crazy statements. You know, yeah, that drives the clicks, but that's not government. That's not government. >> it's on the ballot now in California to pass a wealth tax. And it starts as a one-time 5% tax for billionaires. But it gives the legislature in California the ability to lower the threshold and make it every year if they wanted to and change the percentage. Ro Khanna and Bernie Sanders have talked
[00:39:39] about passing a national wealth tax. Do you think we are going to find ourselves in that conversation in 2028 and we're going to have a national wealth tax? Where eventually, just like we started with a 1% income tax, eventually everyone will pay a significant percentage of their net worth every year to support government services. I mean, uh Senator Sanders has never represented more than a very small, you know, state,
[00:40:06] you know, like win win a competitive state. Uh so, you have your own ideas and, you know, like we'll see what really is required to to to win. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Well, so let me ask he's also recently called for a moratorium on building AI data centers. I work in Silicon Valley as do my co-host. >> China China loves it. China loves >> China loves it. Yeah, let's hand hand AI that race over to the Chinese. Why do you think leaders in the
[00:40:40] party are supporting this idea? It's so obvious what's going to happen if we do this. But um you know, do you think AI is going to increase wealth disparity in this country? >> Win win a real you know, competitive election. Win one. Then you can lecture me or you can tell me hey, what's the right direction. I otherwise you know, like it's it's like they are the they are the part of the party that's so hyper critical. You know, and those kinds of
[00:41:07] excesses like defund the police uh and and uh abolish ICE and these uh outlandish kind of thing. You know, they're the same part of the party now that loves the dude with the Nazi tattoo on his chest. Right. And then I I just want to cover agriculture real quick. I've heard reports that the vast majority of US farms lost money. You're on the Senate Ag Committee, which is why I'm asking this. And this is becoming I
[00:41:31] think a big national issue that the majority of US farmers lost money last year if not for the federal government providing support payments, crop insurance, and what have been one-time bailouts. Do you think we have a path to fixing agriculture in this country? And how do we get farmers back on track where they can earn a living without requiring checks from the government? Farming is such a hard job. I absolutely
[00:41:54] revere American farms, especially in Pennsylvania ones. Their job, you know, quite literally feeds us. I fully support all of their efforts. You know, I was deeply troubled by many many of those tariffs. And also the ones that I talked to, labor labor, labor has made that very, very difficult. I we know we should celebrate and support farmers because I know because I've visited enough farms to see how hard, back-breaking labor it is to just
[00:42:26] deliver food to your table. So, that's part that's part of it and that's kind of connected to things. Thankfully, we have the kinds of abundance in our nation for our food and I know why um that's why uh that's part of the immigration conversation, that's part of the tariffs and that wherever like that. So, so the kinds of things that are hurting a lot of the people that are just almost forming uh uniformly red
[00:42:58] parts of of my state. Yeah, and and and just to wrap up, I mean, you you've said you want to save the Democratic Party not abandon it, which you know, you repeated here today, you're Democrat, but you know, with only 22% approval rating among Pennsylvania Democrats, I mean, how do you carry this forward? And you know, what's the way to kind of bring this party out of the doldrums, if you will, that there's a lack of
[00:43:24] leadership and a lack of moral clarity, as you call it? Well, as as I said earlier, there was there was there was a poll out that was was current to that and it has me around 50/50. You know, that that's very more accurate. So, I'm not worried about 28. You know, we have Iran, we have a lot of other things right now. So, like I'm just I'm not I'm not uh you know, the parlor games about something, you know, like I've never felt better of just
[00:43:55] voting my conscience, voting country over party and just following the moral clarities in really, really important kinds of of of things like destroying Iran, securing Israel, and standing with the Jewish community and Israel after everything that they've been through and how close how much [clears throat] more optimism of of real peace. You know, yes, that's there's a lot of warfare now, but then I think that's a path for
[00:44:28] for more enduring peace. There's been a lot of genuine speculation that you might run for president in '28. Is that on the table? I'm I you know, it's like about '28. I I I don't know what what what America wants or the direction. You know, I'm following what I've just said that's the moral clarities and Well, thanks for speaking your voice. Senator John Fetterman, I appreciate you being with us on All In today.
[00:44:54] This has been great. Thank you. I I love conversations with anyone's that's just a real conversation. Yeah. >> Calling people names and saying outlandish thing Um that doesn't make anyone um I don't know. Like I refuse to engage in. So, thanks for >> It's it's it's a breath of fresh air, honestly, and I really appreciate it. Thank you, John.
[00:45:22] >> [music] >> I'm going all in.