[00:17:02] is it wrong to hold them accountable? And now For critics Yeah, go ahead. Critics Critics are attacking, well, it cost us a billion dollars. It's like, well, you know, not stopping Iran would be a hell of a a more expensive in lives and economic impact. Uh Uh so that's that's the thing. You know, clearly if you even consider of the lessons from history of disarming a dangerous toxic regime the way they've done that
[00:17:32] why can't you be open to really participate but at least not just acknowledge that the world's made safer as a result? There's a lot of criticism from both sides of the aisle that perhaps the United States, President Trump were unduly influenced by uh Netanyahu and by the Israeli lobbyists in the United States. You know, maybe you can address that point. You've taken money from AIPAC and I know that you've kind of been uh that's been brought up
[00:18:00] before but how do you react to the argument that many are making that Israel has undue influence on our politics and our um our kind of uh global actions. Well, that that plays into the to the anti-Semitism and the tropes and it's like pulling all the strings and they're behind everything. It's just that's just part of the group. It's become more and more acceptable as a Democrat to say these things. You know, and it's like
[00:18:27] like Tucker Carlson and and Fuentes and these these people, you know, like no one claims them. No one claims them. You know, I promise you I know one at least I sit around wondering what those are the kind of individuals and their opinions on Israel or anything at that point. Same parts of my party as well, too. Now, if you if you want to normalize that a Nazi tattoo is kind of like a one-off, it's no not a big deal
[00:18:55] or if you think Israel engaged in a genocide, you know, that how ignorant that is to the actually what defines a genocide is is um the exact opposite. They were in a just war, you know, and I remember where it started and remember what Hamas continued to do. Send everybody home and there they would be the end of this. So so that's that's part of this and now how anti-Semitism out of control out of control, you know, on our college
[00:19:28] campuses and as well in in the world even in San Jose. You know, a Jew was beaten just having dinner. You know, you have people driving crashing into synagogue kind of like Tree of Life but thankfully he was immediately killed by the security. They had security because they had to provide those cuz they knew that's always an ever-present kinds of risk there. Thank God. Thank God what that could have made possible
[00:19:59] without them. So that's that's where we are and I don't listen to parts of whether it's my party or the extreme in the right. You know, I never turn to someone like Tucker Carlson for wisdom or their views on on this or anything. You know, honestly. Well, so let's talk about another controversial topic which we just hit on for a moment at the start of the show which is the Save Act. 83% of Americans support voter ID for elections. The
[00:20:26] Senate scheduled to take up the Save Act supposedly or potentially this week. You've said you don't support the Save Act in its current form. What do you think needs to be changed? Do you generally agree with the idea of using voter ID for elections? Well, the Republicans have never had any outreach or to engage. You know, they never said, "Hey, well, how can we rework it?" Or you know, what can we we offer? You know, and I'll make
[00:20:51] it, you know, real ID. Real real ID to vote. Keep it simple, you know? So like yeah, why not? Why not? You know, like it's like that that that would have I I am not outraged by providing ID to vote. 71% of Democrats are okay with that. 83% of Americans are okay with it. Make it that, then yeah, and I'm I'm interested to really to have that conversation. Another thing that they continue to do, they try to smear
[00:21:22] uh voting uh voting by mail. That's absolutely safe. And the red states in America like Florida, Ohio, and others, they rely on it. The more rural a state is, the they really use that, too. So, they've made it this uh Christmas uh tree of hanging all these these kinds of boutique and other issues. Now, if you are serious and like, "Hey, ID to vote." You know, you might bring some actual Democrats on that. I'm not,
[00:21:56] you know, ah, I refuse the kind of extreme rhetoric about it's not Jim Crow. It is not trying to suppress Americans from voting. It's making it perhaps more secure. Um and they'll have a serious conversation. And that's why I you know, I said I'm unwilling uh to support it in its current current form. And do you think there has been election fraud and to what extent? Uh well, I mean, in my experience as lieutenant governor uh in 2020, there
[00:22:28] was a lot of allegation that there was that and not one single remind people, roughly 57 out of Pennsylvania's 67 counties are all deep deep red. Not one single one, there was no fraud. There was no fraud. And now, they we identified, I think believe it was six, six or seven. In fact, and now, coincidentally, they all happened to be Republicans that were voting for President Trump and mostly they used a dead relative to try to to to vote that,
[00:22:59] and they were caught. So, voter fraud, now, in Pennsylvania, it is absolutely secure. I can absolutely, you know, I've witnessed that. And now, in Pennsylvania, the Republicans drove that train of of voting by mail. That was their idea. That was what they demanded. And in return, we dropped the straight party voting by you just push a button to vote straight down the entire ticket ticket voting. And [clears throat] now,
[00:23:25] they had to turn their views because at that time, the president decided that that's a terrible thing. So, I mean, you know, two things must be true. It's not outrageous to show ID to vote, but voting by mail is an honorable, safe, and secure way that Republicans across our nation have been doing it and doing it some in the most secure ways as examples. Do you think there's non-citizen voting going on? One of the
[00:23:51] arguments that's made is that the Democrats opened the border, brought in a lot of non-citizens, gave them access to vote in some way, either mail-in ballots without showing proof of citizenship or whatnot, and that really boosted Democrat votes across blue states. Is that fair or is that unfounded and just >> That's that's a great that's a great point. And I am concerned about that. You know, hey, is there an issue? So, I
[00:24:15] just ran this. Uh that is the Heritage the Heritage founded Yeah, Heritage Foundation. >> Heritage Foundation. You know, they said that their database between 1999 to 2023, they identified 77 instances of non-citizens voting between 1999 and 2023. That's the Heritage Foundation. You know, that's the you know, there. So, so for me, that that would identify that it doesn't seem that, you know, the Heritage Heritage
[00:24:45] Foundation doesn't claim that 70 there's more than 77. So, that's why I'm saying, if you're really serious and you want to have that, let's make it about ID, not all these other kinds of parts that this that uh it dilutes the core mission of like showing ID or making it more secure. So, why have Democrats been so opposed not just to this act, but generally to the idea of showing ID for voting? Many of the interviews and arguments that
[00:25:12] have been made by Democrat politicians in media have brought in ideas that well, not everyone has access to an ID and I mean I am not one of those Democrats I am not one of those Democrats. To to say that that's terrible it's evil. Why are they saying that? Cuz if it's such a an obvious common sense action, 83% of voters support it, why are so many in the party and this is where a lot of people have conspiracy
[00:25:35] theories that they're using it to harvest votes and and so on. Why are they opposing it? What is actually going on? I I I I I can't speak for them, but what I've saying is like I refuse to I'll never tell 83% of Americans that it's awful and terrible to show ID to vote. Mhm. You know? Yeah. I'm say I've said that publicly again and again and again. 71% of Democrats have no problem with it. And you want to know what really backed that up?
[00:26:04] Wisconsin. In April of 2025, they had a ballot initiative to show ID to vote. That passed nearly two to one. They also elected one of the most liberal members of now the Supreme Court in that same election. It's not controversial to vast majority of Americans. I'm never going to be in the business to tell 80-some percent of Americans that you're you're Jim Crow or you're trying to suppress votes. Fair enough. Uh well, let's come back to
[00:26:38] the DHS point you made earlier. You were one of the uh you were the only Democrat actually to vote to fund DHS. But you did say that agents in Minnesota lost the plot. What's your red line on immigration enforcement? So, what should ICE be doing and what should ICE not be doing? There should never be a red line. Never shut the government down. Just don't do that. We used to be the party that refused to do those things. We were
[00:27:08] outraged outraged when Tuberville was jamming up some of the military uh promotions. Freak out. Freak out. You know, and now here we're We shut the whole damn government down. I was one of only two Democrats to push back on that last year and now I'm on the only one. If it's wrong for them, then it should be wrong for us as as well, too. But just to focus on ICE. I mean, ICE's actions in Minnesota, where do you think
[00:27:37] ICE should be doing immigration enforcement and how versus what do you think they shouldn't have been doing? Yeah, I For me, you know, hey, I was I was the Democratic lead on Laken Riley bill. Because that was a serious bill. They, you know, Katie Britt called me up and saying, "Hey, what do you think?" And I'm like, "Yeah, 100%." Yeah, let's let's work together on it. That that's a serious that's a serious effort.
[00:28:02] Uh and now I led that and enough Democrats broke cloture on that. That's why it's a law in America right now. You know, I'd like to think that my credentials on border security as a Democrat is platinum, you know. Uh and I even I voted for Noem, one of the few Democrats to her. I met with her, treated her with respect, you know, refused to use the kind of sexist and gross terms like ICE Barbie and those kinds of thing. Refused to do
[00:28:31] that. She absolutely lost the plot. I called for her to resign. She became a Mayorkas. I was a Democrat calling out that Mayorkas was a disaster without a doubt. You know, we cannot This is unsustainable and this is uh damaging our nation and making it impossible to deliver an American dream for any migrants at that point. >> Do you think that ICE's mandate should be to remove every illegal immigrant from this country? Or do you think that
[00:28:58] they should be going after just one group and leave others and we have to legislate? What's the right way for ICE to operate? No, you know, you have the vast majority of Americans secure our border. They've done that without a doubt. And deport every criminal. They're they they they gone. And now you know, Pennsylvania, that's our top industry is is farming, agriculture. And constantly that's their issue. Labor, labor, labor. It's it's really
[00:29:31] problematic. You know, targeting otherwise lawful migrants, I don't think that's what America really wants. And honestly, that's not what America needs. You know, you know, we they are an important part of our economy and the finding a better way to address that. I'm I'm hey, I'm here for that conversation. My wife was a dreamer. You know, I I would love to work with the other side. You know, I shouldn't punish
[00:29:57] a two-year-old that was brought here, had no idea at that age. You know, so I think they've made you know, important contributions to our nation. I'm a I'm a pro-Democrat. I'm excuse me, I'm a pro-immigration Democrat, but I'm the also the only Democrat that views they shut our government down the way that's where at and I'm becoming the only very proud supporter of Israel. And I'm the only Democrat that's saying
[00:30:25] destroying a regime, you know, that like Iran is a good thing. So Do you think that that creates a bad incentive with the what people call anchor babies where an immigrant comes to the United States, has a baby and then stays and the baby has citizenship? That seems to be one of the the the kind of big debate points right now. Well, I mean for for for me I I I what what I will say is is like if you secure a border, that makes those kinds
[00:30:53] of things more and more difficult or unlikely to to happen. Now, I you know, back in 2023, you saw the numbers. 300,000 people showing up at the border. You know, that's the size of Pittsburgh. I describe that in terms of Pennsylvania. The the size of Pittsburgh is showing up at the border, that's unsustainable. You know, we have to do something about it. You know, Mayorkas had to go. He's been a liability. That's
[00:31:20] why I described Gnome and I called her to to go. >> What was Why did Why did President Biden open the border? What was the motivation? What have you heard from Democrats? >> I'll tell you that that the truth is I was shocked when when they dropped Article 42. You know, in my primary, it's like we all ran on that. That wasn't controversial. I was stunned when they dropped that and you could see this you know, right up after that. Was it to reduce
[00:31:47] labor costs or to bring in Democratic voters or what was the motivation do you think from the party? And you must speak to party leadership that tells you why they're justified or were justified for doing that when they did it. I I I don't know, but I was I was alarmed and I was honest. It's like, you know, for me like for any politician, if you are telling the people they're eyes that you're crazy or not right, you lose. You
[00:32:13] know, and we were punished. We were punished in 24. The border was a serious serious failure as as Democrats. So, it's like holding us accountable and now that's part of our responsibility to learn from from that situation. Now, and I do hope and I do hope the Republicans learn from Minneapolis doesn't help anybody. That that doesn't you know, it doesn't help your cause, you know, and it and then people that absolutely
[00:32:42] the optics, whether that's the optics or the kinds of tactics, any of that, you're not winning anybody over. Right. So, I want to switch gears to my favorite topic, which is the the fiscal condition of the United States government. We have $40 trillion of debt, and we're going to have a $2 trillion deficit this year. A trillion dollars of that is just interest on the existing debt. That number is getting bigger and bigger
[00:33:06] every year. And a bunch of programs are going to run out of money, including Social Security, which is projected to run out of money sometime between, call it 5 and 10 years from now. This is a classic debt debt spiral problem. You know, what is how much does Congress pay attention to this problem? Is it something that's talked about? Because a lot of the conversation seem to be about what the polls say, so that people can
[00:33:27] get elected again the next cycle, versus looking at this big looming debt problem we're facing, and how we're going to address it. Yeah, debt debt's a huge concern for me. I mean, you know, I'm I'm old enough to remember when a billion dollars meant something, or that was a lot of money. And now the trillions are becoming more kinds of it's not kind of like Social Security. Social Security, for example, now they
[00:33:52] just need to make some small small adjustments for actual on the actuarial kinds of things, and that could extend it well into the 20 2070s to the 2080s. Just small small kinds of things. That wouldn't require real leadership, and that would require them to just put down the partisan guns and just stop attacking each other and find a real solution for all of Americans. And now you'll never address debt until you both sides agree
[00:34:22] we're going to stop tearing each other apart. We're going to find a way forward. You know, I hope I hope more Americans want my views of why just turn it into just a professional wrestling or do you really want to find a better way? >> [laughter] >> And you know, like effectively if you turn Washington D.C. as the Jerry Springer show, you know, you asked me earlier what's the leader of the Democratic Party right
[00:34:50] now? I would say it's TDS. That that is that's driving the conversation. If he supports, you know, he could come out for ice cream and lazy Sundays and now suddenly Democrats would hate it. We would want to vote it down. Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's there's also a lot of discussion right now about fraud in the government. I don't know if you've seen these videos out of Minnesota and this guy Nick Sherry doing them out of California.
[00:35:15] Yeah, let me let me say that. Let me say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like I absolutely. Like why can't you celebrate any journalist or any, you know, activist doing that? And what you know, Governor Newsom put out a disgusting video implying that he's, you know, a pedophile or he's that that. Like why? You know, like I mean like that's like kind of a smear. You know, like you can you may you want to disagree or but to