[00:00:00] John Fetterman, thank you for joining us here on the All-In podcast for this All-In interview. Very excited to have you here today. I know you're in the middle of voting today. Sounds like the Save America Act might be starting its debate on the floor. Is that correct? I don't know. Like what what I've heard recently that they don't have the votes, but we will find. But I don't have any special insight. I mean, it's it's going to be
[00:00:25] very close. I don't think it will If they do hit it, I don't see it more beyond 51. But I'm not I'm not really sure. It's a shame that they didn't make it more about just ID to vote. They they turned it into other things. They turned it into kind of a Christmas tree, and they're hanging all these things on it. But that's that's where we are, but we'll know uh and having someone follow that, too. I just He's going to let me know, in fact, cuz
[00:00:53] I'm really interested to see how it goes. Because if they do, then that's going to turn into a really uh a spectacle about what a a talking filibuster is. Yeah. Well, let's see what happens. I mean, it's a pretty dramatic week ahead. Let me just start I want to zoom out a little bit and talk about how you make policy decisions. And I want to just start with party. You ran as a progressive in 2016, lost. You beat Dr. Oz in '22. And now you have
[00:01:20] a 72% approval rating from Pennsylvania Republicans. And only 22% from Democrats. Are you a Republican or are you a Democrat senator? And kind of what's the way that you think about your party affiliation? Well, I actually I think the the more realistic the realistic numbers was like uh earlier in the morning console. And that had me at basically 50/50 with Dems. And I was I was in the the 60s for with Republicans. Without a doubt,
[00:01:51] without a doubt, that that I am more popular with with Republicans. And I mystified by that. I mean, I'm honored to to have support from any Pennsylvanian, but what I will say that um you know, [clears throat] I've just going to follow what I think is the moral clarity. And now, in my very first race back in 2015, over a decade ago, uh what used to be a progressive is definitely not what a progressive started to turn into and what it be
[00:02:21] became. And and even in my my race in '21 '22, I was announcing, I am no longer I I'm just a Democrat. I'm not a progressive. And now, there's been that evolution away from like those core principles that really weren't weren't controversial. And and now, I've isolated myself by following and standing and proud to be un unapologetically supporting Israel. And now, if you've seen that that poll came out yesterday that the standing in the
[00:02:54] Democratic Party continues to deteriorate, I've put that out on my social media, and I said, "I don't follow. I don't care about the polls. You know, there's a moral clarity here, and that should be where the rest of us should should be." Uh and now, it's been really easy for me to to lean in on it, and that I created the only Democrat that's very supportive about Epic Fury. And I'm also the only Democrat that
[00:03:23] refuses to shut down the Department of Homeland Security. Yes, as a Democrat, we would like to make some some reforms on ICE, but what I'm unwilling to do is shut it down. And after that horrific that attack in Michigan, where where he was looking to kill 150 toddlers, you know, and now there's more and more kinds of these these events. Why would [clears throat] you vote to shut our government down? and the cybersecurity
[00:03:54] agency, you know, that must be incredible for the Chinese and the Iranians that that we've shut that government down. So, that's that you know, I my core values haven't changed. If anything's changed, that's been kind of the core what what's required to be a Democrat and I'm going to follow what I think is true. What is the country over party, whether that's the right side of history. What do you think the Democratic Party
[00:04:26] used to stand for? What does it stand for today and what do you think it should stand for? I I I honestly I I I don't know. But, what I will say as I would refer to to your listeners is like listen to what the people that are running for the Senate as Democrats. Watch what they're saying and doing and it's becoming more and more anti-Israel, openly hostile to to Israel. And now that becomes part of the litmus litmus
[00:04:59] purity test. I'm not going to take any of their money. I'm going to denounce that and I was the only Democrat that's absolutely Netanyahu just done the right thing to to break the that access there Hezbollah and Hamas and now attacking also Houthis as well. So, I mean, so do you know where what Democrats stand for? See who's running for the Senate and now play it planner with the the Nazi tattoo guy. You know, on top of being a an about
[00:05:35] communist and I'll said >> [clears throat] >> incredibly offensive things about women and sexual assault and I'll refers to rural people as stupid and racist. And I was so and now and is that what Democrats want? Well, I guess we'll see that. But, you know, you see in all these different things also in Michigan, too. A guy that really as far I know has refused to condemn Hamas. And he led the, you know, no the the no
[00:06:05] What was the no committed? It's like the forget what that that stupid thing was called, but it was like you you know, you no vote no vote for uh uncommitted. Uncommitted, yeah. Uncommitted. Yeah. But, you know, we're not going to vote for Kamala Harris. And and now they helped deliver um Trump uh for Michigan. So, that's like look who's running. And look who's being competitive. So, that that's you want to know where Democrats are, look
[00:06:31] in those kinds of races. You know, it's interesting. We used to have the ability to agree on some things and disagree on other things. It seems nowadays whatever the other side is doing or saying, you have to take the opposing view. And in many cases, it seems like that might force folks to kind of contort into these weird positions that don't even make logical sense. Why did we get to this point? What happened that everything had to be
[00:06:59] polar? There was never the ability for us to There's no longer the ability for us to agree on some things while disagreeing on other things. What caused this change in this country? And can we get back from it? I I don't know. Like, part of my party's become so inflexible. What what I've discovered that, you know, you are not allowed to be a proud unapologetic standing uh with Israel, but it's it's okay. Uh it's not a big deal if you have
[00:07:26] a Nazi tattoo on your chest. And you have people in now in my party now are trying to normalize that or to excuse that. I mean, like it's that that's that's that's kind of where we are. And and now I know what's toxic as a Democrat to disagree with. But for me, those are I think our core values. You know, the kinds of values in Israel, kinds of the core value that we have always used to say, "Never ever shut our
[00:07:55] government down. That's always wrong. You're going to punish union members. You're going to punish, you know, everyday Americans." Now here we're doing those same things. Uh and now I think our border, for example, I think secure our border, deport all the criminals. But now, never ever have the kind of tragedies like we had in Minneapolis. That's not what anyone really voted for anything supports. So, you know, if I'm more
[00:08:20] popular than Republicans, I don't really know. But uh but I also thought I I treat everyone with respect and I don't refer to Republicans or members of MAGA. They're not Nazis. They're not fascists. They're not trying to destroy our country. Uh now I know and I love many many people that that voted for or support President Trump. I'm going to treat anybody with respect. I don't attack members of their families. I don't use
[00:08:50] and and those kinds of attacks. We have to find a better way forward and and that's what I've been maintaining. Who do you think leads the Democratic Party today? Oh, we don't we don't have one. >> [clears throat] >> I I think I think the the TDS that I think that's the leader right now. You know, right now our our party is is governed by the TDS and now it's made it virtually impossible without being punished as a Democrat to agree
[00:09:20] something's good or I agree with the other side. And I I would define that by epic fury. I am the literally the only Democrat in America uh in Congress that I've come across that's saying, "I think it's a great thing to break and destroy the Iranian regime. I think it's entirely appropriate to hold them accountable and what's strange to me that every single Democrat that's run for president and anyone that I know in
[00:09:49] Congress says we must never allow them to acquire a nuclear bomb. When that happens, why not celebrate that and or acknowledge that? I have only witnessed just criticism and these kinds of these kinds of attack. Like, yeah, you don't have to agree on every single thing, but when a good thing happens, just because it comes from a the different party, that that tells me that you're choosing the demand of the the base or the party
[00:10:21] over country or what what's really I think appropriate in that circumstances. Now, I I would say now, you know, to any country any country, do you consume oil? Yes, of course we do. Well, then that makes it your problem, too. That makes you part of your responsibility. I don't know why, you know, like Israel and and our nation did the heavy lifting. Excuse me, uh the the heavy the heavy work to to destroy the Iranian
[00:10:53] military apparatus. You know, now why not wouldn't you not, you know, help us to reopen the straits because you consume oil. You all could be the ability to why not par- participate? That that's that's strange to me. So, I think everyone, why can't you get behind? The only ones that aren't are China and Russia. Those are the same kinds of especially in Europe, you know, what they're doing to Ukraine for over 4
[00:11:25] years and we all know what the goals of China is. There's so You say it's not our war, it's like yeah, well, it's our cause. And if you consume oil, and you all do, you know, that effectively makes us all part of this responsibility. Right. Do you think uh there's a clear path to getting out of Iran for the United States at this stage? How do you view this exit happening? It seems like the president, to some degree, is
[00:11:53] declaring victory, but on the other hand, there seems to be continued activity and and push forward here. What's our exit path? I I don't know. But what I will say, what's undeniably been happening. Now, first, why aren't all of the media outlets demanding proof of life from from the Ayatollah? You know, ever since that first strike back in last month, not a peep, not a peep out of him. I mean, the the Iranians are doing kind of like Weekend
[00:12:25] at Italia's. >> [clears throat] >> You know, like they're just trying to pretend this guy is functional in any in any way. And now, just today today, you know, they just they just eliminated, you know, who was effectively the the de facto leader. You know, I think that's fantastic. Keep doing it for that. So, and without a doubt, they have no capabilities at this point otherwise than to to fire off a a drone at civilians at
[00:12:55] civilians. The Iranians have never done anything other than just attacking civilians. Abs- absolutely. That's a fact. You know, they can't engage in traditional kinds of of combat. So, those cowards, what they do is fire drones to create chaos. You know, they've been effectively neutered, and that's a wonderful thing. And that's also effectively broken the the proxies. And that's also made the world undeniably more secure. So, and this is
[00:13:25] not this is not a an uh I mean this war is only 3 weeks into it. This whatever you want to call it, whatever the semantics, it's 3 weeks. This is not like a Ukraine in war. You know, this is 3 weeks. It It's not you know, neat and it's not absolutely quick to to dismantle the entire Iranian apparatus for the thing. Holding them accountable is entirely appropriate. And every single president since the last 40 some years wanted to do something about
[00:14:00] Iran. Finally, that's happened. It's a good thing. And now To your point about the straight and America looking for assistance to support the activities that the commercial oil activity through the straight, NATO allies have largely said no. Do you think that we're looking at the end of the NATO alliance? What does this speak to for the future both America's leadership with the in the West and this alliance that has kind
[00:14:29] of created a great power center that's created balance in the world. I mean, is NATO at risk? >> I'm proud to be an American and and I believe, you know, we are a force of good in the world and I don't truly don't understand why they don't want to join us to to reopen the straits. But if you consume oil, that makes it part of your your problem and that makes you a part of your responsibility to join us. So, we've done the hard work at this
[00:14:59] point and the horror of 10/7 was born by the Israelis, too. Now, they've done the appropriate thing to to destroy the proxies and to hold them fully accountable. And now why the world can't rally around this to just do that. Now, I do believe we will be successful with or without their help. But remind people that's been 3 weeks. And now for a nation that's 90 million that used to be this fearsome force of military in the entire
[00:15:31] region, just been pulverized into irrelevance other than just creating kinds of chaos, firing a drone there. And now they can't they can't even in fight with with honor. You know, they they attack civilians. They've massacred their own You know, there there would be more uprising because they're terrified because they've had to witness as they've killed up to 35,000 of them uh last time. So, they've been held accountable.
[00:16:02] We're as an American, hold them accountable. And that's a good thing. Yeah, I think the question a lot of people are asking again is what does success look like? What's it defined as? How do we get out of this and when do we walk away? And that uncertainty I think is what has a lot of folks saying I don't know if this is going to become another Iraq war or Afghanistan type situation. That's what makes folks concerned.
[00:16:27] Abs- absolutely absurd. This is not a nation-building thing. This is a destroying a terrible regime. Disarmament. Disarmament. You know, like if you live in Europe, remember what the you you like if you would have disarmed the the German Nazi regime before it it it really started. I mean, like have you forgot the lessons of history? When you have a regime that is committed to destroying, you know, the nations in the region. And now, like why
[00:17:02] is it wrong to hold them accountable? And now For critics Yeah, go ahead. Critics Critics are attacking, well, it cost us a billion dollars. It's like, well, you know, not stopping Iran would be a hell of a a more expensive in lives and economic impact. Uh Uh so that's that's the thing. You know, clearly if you even consider of the lessons from history of disarming a dangerous toxic regime the way they've done that
[00:17:32] why can't you be open to really participate but at least not just acknowledge that the world's made safer as a result? There's a lot of criticism from both sides of the aisle that perhaps the United States, President Trump were unduly influenced by uh Netanyahu and by the Israeli lobbyists in the United States. You know, maybe you can address that point. You've taken money from AIPAC and I know that you've kind of been uh that's been brought up
[00:18:00] before but how do you react to the argument that many are making that Israel has undue influence on our politics and our um our kind of uh global actions. Well, that that plays into the to the anti-Semitism and the tropes and it's like pulling all the strings and they're behind everything. It's just that's just part of the group. It's become more and more acceptable as a Democrat to say these things. You know, and it's like
[00:18:27] like Tucker Carlson and and Fuentes and these these people, you know, like no one claims them. No one claims them. You know, I promise you I know one at least I sit around wondering what those are the kind of individuals and their opinions on Israel or anything at that point. Same parts of my party as well, too. Now, if you if you want to normalize that a Nazi tattoo is kind of like a one-off, it's no not a big deal
[00:18:55] or if you think Israel engaged in a genocide, you know, that how ignorant that is to the actually what defines a genocide is is um the exact opposite. They were in a just war, you know, and I remember where it started and remember what Hamas continued to do. Send everybody home and there they would be the end of this. So so that's that's part of this and now how anti-Semitism out of control out of control, you know, on our college
[00:19:28] campuses and as well in in the world even in San Jose. You know, a Jew was beaten just having dinner. You know, you have people driving crashing into synagogue kind of like Tree of Life but thankfully he was immediately killed by the security. They had security because they had to provide those cuz they knew that's always an ever-present kinds of risk there. Thank God. Thank God what that could have made possible