[00:00:00] We've got Dan Dreifus on [music] the show. He's with Fornight Capital. >> We're going to be measuring human progress by how much electricity >> [music] >> we consume. >> The semiconductor industry, I view that as an industrial or infrastructure company. I mean, it's effectively a factory. We try to figure [music] out where the world is going and then we try to figure out [music] what we're going to need to get there.
[00:00:24] >> In the next 10 minutes, I am going to try to teach you about critical minerals, commodities, our incredibly fragile infrastructure here in the US that is going to require trillions and trillions of dollars of investment if we want to achieve our technological objectives, our reshoring reindustrialization objectives, and our national security and military objectives. But first, a little bit of history. We are at a very significant inflection
[00:00:59] point right now in US economic growth and what it's going to look like. Really from the early 2000s until just a few years ago, the US went through effectively what I think was an economic miracle where we created so much growth, so much market cap, so much value without really having to invest any capital at all. I mean, think of all the companies that were created with no capital. You had Google with the search
[00:01:30] engine. You had Meta with social media. They bought WhatsApp for $30 with 12 employees. You know, no capital whatsoever. You had the streaming platforms. You had the food delivery platforms. You had Apple computer, which was capital light, created trillions of market cap. You had software as a service. Absolutely no capital required to create all that value. And at the same time, we were creating these companies.
[00:01:56] At the same time we were doing that, we were literally tearing down all of our critical infrastructure and moving it overseas to China. So, we were really doubling down on that capital light mentality. But then it started started to come back to bite us, right? We had COVID, we had the Russia-Ukraine conflict, we had the tariffs, now we have the Iranian conflict, and every time we had one of these geopolitical flare-ups,
[00:02:25] inflation spikes like a rocket. You need a telescope to see how high inflation went, and it never came down. And the reason for that is we let our supply chains get way too fragile and way too weak, and there's no resiliency in the supply chains. And now we're at this inflection point where we want to reshore everything that we tore down and moved to China, we want to reindustrialize. We have this technological compute
[00:02:55] revolution that is infinitely more infrastructure-intensive than compute was in the last generations, and this is creating this really wild demand shock for infrastructural critical minerals, commodities, at the same time where there's a supply shock because we just haven't invested in this stuff for so long. Now, there are so many capital cycles going on at the same time. I've never seen this many going on at the same time in
[00:03:28] my career. We have the aerospace cycle. Boeing and Airbus have a trillion dollars of backlog over the next 10 years. Now throw in the space economy, which is going to compete for the exact same materials and backlog that Boeing and Airbus are trying to source. We have the grid, right? Anytime it gets a little bit cold in Texas, the ERCOT, the Texas grid's not connected not connected to the rest of the US grid. Every time it gets a
[00:03:53] little bit cold, that grid shuts down and they're freezing in the dark. Then we've got, you know, here in California, Paradise, California, that power line that caught on fire and killed 300 people. Did you know that that power line was over 106 years old? There's parts of the grid in this country that are over 106 years old. And then here in California, if half the people buy electric cars or there's robo taxis and we all go and
[00:04:20] plug them in at 6:00 p.m. after work and turn up the air conditioning, we're just going to kill the grid. Boom. We're going to kill it. We're all going to be sitting in the dark. So, the grid barely works for what we need it for right now, and we haven't even started talking about the tsunami of demand, electricity demand that AI is going to bring. And there's power generation, you know, we've let China go and build
[00:04:42] multiples more power generation than what we have here. And this is a trillion-dollar plus capital cycle that's probably going to be a trillion dollars every 10 years for the next 30 years. Data centers, this is now a trillion dollars per year. Per year, all infrastructure, all all commodities. Then there's semi fabs. Um the CPU is making a huge resurgence. CPU intensity is is going up like a rocket. And and I
[00:05:10] I bet you this number is way too low, $750 billion. I bet you that's going to be measured in the trillions. And then there's defense. Right? Everybody, you know, Taiwan's turned into a porky pie. Japan's raising their defense budgets. Europe's raising their defense budgets. The US raising their defense budgets. What the similarity is amongst all of these end markets is none of them will work without critical minerals.
[00:05:38] None of it. None of this can happen. And so here's the problem. Last April, China announced that they were going to cut off exports of some critical materials to the US. Samarium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, lutetium, scandium, yttrium, erbium, silver. Just cut it off. And we're close to a lot of big industrial supply chains. And the cut off of samarium cobalt magnets, we learned that the Ford Motor Company was within days, literally days,
[00:06:14] of their entire production line shutting down. The whole Ford Motor Company. And same with McDonnell Douglas, too, by the way. And this put people in Department of War, Department of Energy into a panic. And to their credit, they're doing something really aggressive and really important. They are now going around to small resource owners across the US and into Canada, and they're knocking on the doors of these companies that were left for dead
[00:06:45] in the last 20 years. And they're saying, "Here is three pieces of paper. The first piece of paper is an equity check that we're investing into your company so that you can go and start converting your resource into a mine." And then the company says, "Oh, that's great. Wow, that's that's that's a shock. But, you know, the problem is I've been waiting on my permit for the last 20 years. Nobody wants to give me a
[00:07:06] permit." And they say, "Oh, look at the second piece of paper. There's your permit. Go and start building right now." And then they show them a third piece of paper. And then the company says, "What's this?" And they say, "This is an off-take agreement, take or pay with a minimum floor price that's going to guarantee you a very high internal rate of return on your project, where you can keep all the upside above the minimum price, but
[00:07:29] here's a minimum price that you can go out and raise a bunch of capital to get this thing fast-tracked and up and running." Now, China has an absolute grip. It's absolute on all of these critical minerals. And it's going to take at least 10 years, probably 20 to catch up, but we got to start somewhere because we just can't have China leading over us and squeezing our testicles every time that we don't do something that they don't
[00:07:55] like and say we're going to cut off your exports, we're going to cut off exports of critical minerals and you guys are going to freeze in the dark. So, I give a lot of credit to the administration for doing this and really, you know, I've done commodities now for 25 years and I've never seen something like this happen before. It's truly what I call a déjà vu day moment, which is the overwhelming feeling that none of this
[00:08:14] has ever happened before. So, here's copper. This is the king of metals. This is just one example. We need copper for everything. You know, if we want clean energy, you know, solar power per megawatt takes five amounts five times the amount of copper than a typical base load CCGT gas-fired turbine. Same with wind, seven times the copper. Data centers for a 1 gigawatt AI factory now, you need 50,000 tons of copper per
[00:08:41] gigawatt. And we're going to start building 15 gigawatts of these things per year. Per year. So, 50,000 tons per gigawatt at 15 gigawatts is 750,000 tons of copper that we're going to need for these things. Do you know what the copper supply was last year? It grew only 500,000 tons and this is just the data centers. Then electric cars, you know, if we're going to have robo taxis everywhere, electric car consumes five or six times the copper
[00:09:04] than a traditional internal combustion engine. And then there's the military. In the Ukraine-Russia conflict, did you know that we used more explosives than in all of World War II? Do you know that? And the artillery shells of these explosives, guess what they're made of? One of them's called the copperhead, very cleverly named after a poisonous snake. They're all made of copper. Do you think we go into the battlefield and
[00:09:29] recycle that copper? No, that copper's gone. So, we need this these metals for everything that we do. Now, where are we going to get it? Going back in human history to Mohenjo-Daro, we have mined 700 million tons of copper. 700 million tons of copper over the past 10,000 years. Now, 80% of that copper, we could probably get it all back if we wanted. But, what we'd have to do is we'd have to tear down this building.
[00:10:01] We'd have to rip up the grid. We'd have to tear down the buildings in Europe, in Japan, in China. And we could get all that copper back. Sure. But, then we'd be doing this conference in a tent. So, how are we going to get it? Well, right now copper demand is 30 million tons per year. About 4 million of that supply comes from recycled copper copper. The rest of it is 26 million tons is mined. And if we just grow in line with GDP, so
[00:10:31] forgetting about data center upside, forgetting about green energy solar upside, just growing at GDP like we used to. Now, listen carefully. That means over the next 18 years, we're going to need 700 million tons of copper. Over the next 18 years, we're going to need as much copper as we mined in the last 10,000 years. That means we're going to need five world-class mega tier one mines coming online every single year.
[00:11:01] And you can go and grok this or chat GPT this. You can count on one hand and have some fingers left over uh the number of tier one mines that are coming on between now and the end of the decade. So, I don't know what they're going to do because it takes 7 to 12 years to build a copper mine. The existing copper mines are dying. You know, the big mines in Chile are over 100 years old. The grades are depleting.
[00:11:24] And um this is going to be a major major challenge and an upcoming bottleneck. Right? Today, all the rage is in memory and HBM and NAND. Prices are going vertical cuz that's the bottleneck. Now, if you want to look around the corner and see the next bottleneck coming, I strongly urge you to look at copper. And so, um here we are. A supply shock meets a demand shock. Commodity cycles typically last 15 years and have multiple hundreds
[00:11:55] percent of upside. We're only a few years into this. This is just really getting started. And I want to say one more thing. Right, we spoke about demand. We're having this demand shock. We spoke about supply. But, what we haven't spoken about is how we're destroying the value of the US dollar. Since COVID, we have absolutely destroyed the value of our fiat currencies. Today, we have $40 trillion of government debt that's growing at
[00:12:22] $2.5 trillion every year. On top of that, we have $100 trillion of discounted present value of the future social liabilities. So, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, pensions. That's also growing by $2.5 trillion a year. So, you have $2.5 trillion of growth on the federal debt, $2.5 trillion of growth on the social liabilities. The US government only has $5.5 trillion of tax receipts every year. And so, what's going to happen the next time we
[00:12:49] have a recession where tax receipts go down and spending has to go up? We're going to print giga dollars. And in the 1970s, we had this problem as well. And the way we did it is we just debased the currency through through some inflation, through some growth, and the currency lost 70% of its purchasing power. And commodities and hard assets and infrastructure will protect your purchasing power in that kind of
[00:13:12] environment. Go and look it up. In the 1970s, what was the best performing asset class by a mile? That's your homework. So, with that, uh thank you and uh look forward to chatting with you guys. Shabbat, I think on the prediction show, you um did was your call I forget which category it was, but you definitely had top >> the best performing asset was going to be copper, yeah. >> Yeah. Pretty >> And that's before I talked to Dan.
[00:13:40] >> That's right. >> Which is saying something. >> Well, you know, I I think the copper price is easily going to double from here. I mean, I've seen I've seen molybdenum go from a dollar a pound to $33 a pound. So, a double is no big deal. >> Yeah. >> And so >> Take a Take a step back. You said something really interesting backstage, which is If you look at everything that we're doing right now, we're barely going to keep up
[00:14:03] with just the natural energy demands of of humanity, right? Just explain that thesis the way that you framed it in the back. >> So, here's the issue. We have not invested in upgrading and modernizing and hardening the electric grid since post-World War II. We just let it go. You know, the last two, three, four administrations were sleepwalking and haven't done anything to harden this infrastructure. Now, if we simply just want to achieve our
[00:14:33] objectives to re-industrialize, reshore, electrify. When I say electrify, that just means replacing your old gas boilers in these buildings with heat pumps, which every commercial building is doing. It means, you know, electric car penetration going up. It means using your your your electronic devices more. Not even talking about AI. Not even talking about AI. We're going to have shortfalls just from that. >> Just from living our lives.
[00:15:01] >> Just from living our lives. >> So, what happens? Blackouts, brownouts? >> Blackouts, brownouts, and we're going to have to >> prices. >> Rising electricity prices, but you know, you brought up a really great point I thought on one of your shows where you were talking about how the utilities are just really goosing up the cost to do everything so that they can report to their regulator and earn that ROE on the higher capital base. What's
[00:15:27] really interesting I think is really under-appreciated is that's where all the inflation is coming from. It's from the transmission and distribution from the utility because power prices over the last 20 years, even after the rise we've just had, power prices are still down they're definitely down in real terms, but they haven't really gone up much in absolute terms. And so, when you're talking about power going up
[00:15:49] >> making it is still cheap. >> But getting more expensive. >> No, it's getting it but getting it to people is what >> getting it to people because, you know, the labor the labor by far and away is the biggest bottle that craft labor, right? What do we tell all our kids to do? You know, in in the last 10 or 15 years they go out and stand for you become a coder. >> northeast. >> Yeah. >> Right. Big mistake. And so,
[00:16:09] I'm curious from the audience, in your homes, how many people have put up solar and or power walls? How many people have actually done that? So, that's about half the crowd. How many people, second question, are planning to do that in the next year or two? Okay, so that's another 20%. So, it's pretty obvious this is obviously a fluent crowd. They are routing around the grid. Is the solution to this energy independence
[00:16:39] in the >> Great question. >> you know, the home, in the business Businesses are not waiting for the government. So, maybe the grid is going to be like this weird archaic infrastructure and it's just going to be a ground-up solution. >> Well, you're going to need the grid no matter what for industrial use. I mean, that's that that's the foundation of industrial use. I mean, the scale of what we have to do just for
[00:17:01] industrial Here's a good stat for you. So, a 1 gigawatt AI factory, if you wanted to do all solar, right? And I'm a big solar bull, okay? If you want to do all solar because solar's capacity factor is 20% cuz the sun doesn't shine all the time, with a capacity factor of 20%, a 1 gigawatt data center needs 5 GW of solar. Each GW of solar takes up 7,000 acres. So, at 5 GW that's 35,000 acres. That's bigger than San Francisco. So, where are
[00:17:28] you going to find the people? You know, where are you going to find That's that's the biggest bottleneck we have, by the way, is craft labor. >> Yeah. What about generally scarcity breeds innovation? There's been a conversation or I've seen some startups that are talking about new technology in mining to access I think traditionally rare earth uh is kind of the pitch. But, everything we need is in the earth below