[00:14:51] chimpanzeee studies for monoconal antibodies. That was announced two months ago. We said um so typically 144 chimpanzees are used for a monoconal antibbody. By the way, it's it's >> you're making me sick because this has always been from my point of view one of the most troubling bioethical concerns I've had about the the industry because you don't get a lot of statistical power or benefit from doing this and it's just
[00:15:16] awful that we do it. But >> you you actually get misleading information sometimes. Some say aspirin would not have been approved today if we had the old animal testing requirements to species because drugs that are uh have safety concerns in animals may not have safety concerns in humans. So we may miss out on cures and vice versa. 90% of drugs that pass animal studies do not pass safety and efficacy in humans.
[00:15:39] So what are we doing? We have computational modeling now. Computer can look at a drug and actually make better predict predictions and we have something called organ on a chip technology where you grow say the liver cells or heart cells in a lab administer the drug and then look for any enzyme leaks or disturbances. These are modern techniques. We've got to modernize the agency. It's a massive goal. So >> and they're doing it in China. They're
[00:16:01] doing it in China. And >> if we don't, then we're also putting our industry at risk. >> We've got to be more competitive, 100%. And so what does this do? It compresses the time for approval. It allows R&amp;D to be done at a lower price point, translating into lower drug prices for everyday Americans. More drugs can be evaluated. I mean, I had one pharma executive tell me, &quot;Hey, I love you're going from 2 to one pivotal trials. That
[00:16:24] means we can run twice as many drugs through large pivotal trials.&quot; That's what we want. We want to see more. Look, I'm coming in with a bi. We all have our biases. I have a bias and it's just a matter of recognizing your biases when we talk about reforms. My bias is being at the bedside breaking bad news to people with incurable conditions or being at the bedside in the ICU. And when you do that, it has a profound
[00:16:50] impact on your brain and your soul. and you think about what can we possibly do to give this individual some hope. And so when I see a 10 to 12 year time period of bringing a drug to market, I think in the modern world it makes no sense. Just think about the advances in science and technology. So I'm committed to that mission. And we've got a new pilot program now to get decisions out in weeks. >> It's unheard of. It's unprecedented. Uh
[00:17:20] we have the first uh medication we just announced after 55 days. Um we we have a lot to change in the workflow to get that time frame down. But we have I think 18 products that have vouchers for this new pilot program. If you're going to do something new, you have to pick criteria. >> You can either do it randomly or you can pick criteria. So the criteria we chose are drugs in line with our national priorities. a unmet public health need.
[00:17:48] Say a a new amazing cure for cancer where the tumor shrinks in front of your eyes and you don't need surgery or chemo. That's a real thing. That's I'm actually giving you a real example. We gave those companies a voucher. Um if you're bringing manufacturing back to the United States, that's a national security issue. And if you are going to make the drug affordable, that's an access issue. And that's an a massive
[00:18:13] priority for this president is lowering drug prices. So, we have uh this pilot underway and it's going extremely well. >> So, the drug company gets a voucher if they qualify under one of those three criteria and that gives them a fast track. >> That's right. >> Yeah. And when will we get a readout on how that program's going and whether it becomes standard? >> So, in internally it's going great. I mean, I've got employees at the FDA tell
[00:18:36] me, gosh, I love this. It makes sense. And the reason we haven't done it before is that we farm out the application to a dozen offices and everybody has until the target date to get their final reports in. Well, the target date is about a year. >> So if you are a expeditious scientist or you have the ability to uh go do your work expeditiously and in two weeks you have your result. Well, it doesn't matter because the farm talks person or
[00:19:05] whoever else is another part of that has until the day before. Guess when they're going to submit it? The day before. So, we are changing the incentives internally, the bonus structure. We're changing the alignment. We're changing the culture. And our goal is to streamline that process. >> Going back to the computational point, we are collecting more data, digitizing that data on patients than ever before. That data should generally be
[00:19:29] accessible. Is there a world where we can transition from phase one, phase two, phase three trials into a phase one, phase two slash3 by taking into account all of this additional data? Some people have talked about the idea of using AI plus other health data that's collected and allowing the phase 3 to kind of roll into phase 2 and create a much more expedited computationally assisted approval process. Is that something that's on the
[00:19:55] road map or is discussed? >> Absolutely. There has been tinkering of combining phase one and two, phase one, two hybrid trials, phase two and three hybrid trials, approving something with sort of a preliminary approval after phase two if the results are really promising. And those are all steps in the right direction, but I think of something much bigger. Can we move to continuous trials? Can we use basian uh
[00:20:23] statistical evaluation which we announced this week? We are now going to allow basian statistics to be used. So now you can if something works instead of having a committee meet twice a year to do a cut of the data and print it out and everybody looks at it. I mean I was literally on those committees. Why can't we in real time with AI tools figure out when there's a safety signal or efficacy established and then call it
[00:20:52] at that point allowing more people to get the drug as soon as we know it works. And is there more continuous tracking that's also possible to look for risks and issues that start to emerge in certain populations? Because this is something that it's almost like the approval happens and then you find out years later that well maybe there was an issue that we should have caught sooner. And if you move to a more
[00:21:12] datadriven continuous observational system, can you both have faster approvals but also faster recognition of safety concerns for specific population? >> Yeah, I love the way you're thinking. So we I want to see continuous trials with endpoints in the cloud >> so that the reviewers are looking on to the endpoint. You don't do your freshman year of college and then submit a giant 50,000page application to start your
[00:21:36] sophomore year and then do your sophomore year and start another 50 page to start your but that's what we're doing at the FDA. Now look, it had good intentions, but we live in a modern world. We're using computers now, not stone tablets. And so we can run more continuous trials. That's the goal. And we can use basian statistics, which we announced this week a a a big uh uh sort of new milestone with that. And I want
[00:22:01] to see um I want to see us continue to have eyes on a drug after approval. So approval is sort of a a point where we say hey the world can use it with a fair degree of confidence on the safety uh efficac and efficacy tradeoff but uh why did we learn 5 years after Vio was approved that it may have killed 38,000 people well in the modern world with big data we can have eyes on a drug as it's being used in real time to call
[00:22:36] out that safety signal. immediately and let people know. It may be a subgroup of people that are affected. There may be a drug drug interaction. Um, you know, you think about the opioid epidemic, 15 years of prescribing it, having no idea. And I was I'm guilty. I was doing this. I was prescribing it. My patients were getting addicted, coming back for refills. I thought it was kind of a one-off thing. You know, a lot of people
[00:23:00] come back, ask for refills. No, it was a national pattern we should have identified in big data. And so we're going to do postmarket surveillance in a way like we've never seen before using big data. And if we get it right, if we get it right and there's a big priority, it can actually change the threshold of approval because you know you're going to have eyes on a drug immediately for people in the general audience to
[00:23:22] understand this begs the question and I think people will bring this up as as a critique of absolute safety. I always talk about the example of you put the Whimos or the autonomous cars on the road, they uh cut down on uh fatalities by 95%. But as soon as one person gets killed by a Whimo, the media goes crazy and says these autonomous cars are killing people. You know, and and and this this begs the question about the the understanding of
[00:23:52] safety and risk uh versus the benefit that can occur. You know, I was sharing with you about a family member who had to wait a long time to get a certain therapeutic and I was thinking about the thousands of people that that died it in that same period of time. Fortunately, he was able to get the therapeutic, but all the people that that died because they couldn't get access to this drug. How do we convey to the general
[00:24:16] population the idea that speed matters in saving lives and this question about absolute safety and absolute risk around drug approval? This is really important when you talk about risk to a general audience. How do you convey that second order effect? >> That's right. So safety is our number one priority. We are to safeguard the the public. But having 8 months of 144 chimpanzees go undergoing studies has risks to the general public. You may be
[00:24:47] holding back a curative medication for 8 months. Not identifying the efficacy in a trial with basian statistics. um early enough has risks because that extra lag period is time when patients like the patients that I treated at John's Hopkins are told sorry we don't know of anything out there so time delays that are unnecessary have risks and I think that is something we don't think about in the FD you know enough at the FDA we
[00:25:17] think oh we have this concern let's sleep on it okay well you get a night to sleep on it not 9 months >> so I want to give a flip to this. The right to try law gives patients access to drugs that uh when they're in a certain condition, they can access the drug before it's gone through full approvals. What's the current state of right to try? Where do you view that going? And does the threshold for right to try change over time, giving patients
[00:25:42] and their doctors more rights and more access sooner or does the FDA still have to hold firm? How do you think about that over time? >> So, I believe in both the letter and the spirit of right to try. It's an amazing achievement of U. President Trump in the his first term and I have signed 100% of right to try requests that come across my desk. Of course, the companies have to agree to make the medication available, but it's a great program and
[00:26:08] like we don't want people getting spun up on snake oil that doesn't work, that's cost $3 million where their churches are doing GoFundMe campaigns when we know a drug does not work. So, we do have a responsibility and we do we we have to be good stewards of the Medicare program. They're using taxpayer dollars to fund things. But if there's a signal that something works and somebody wants to try a drug, who are we to say
[00:26:34] you can't? So, we look at safety, but beyond safety, we are, you know, have to be as flexible as possible with our uh regulation. And we announced just this week that we are getting rid of the some of the regulatory requirements for cell and gene therapy. Now those are used for a lot of rare diseases, but we had requirements uh what we call PPQ runs for batches of um it's part of the manufacturing requirements for cell and
[00:27:02] gene therapies. We were holding them to the same standards we were for say mass manufacturing of a pill. Well, a cellar gene therapy can be developed in a lab at UCSF or Stanford. And are we going to require that they use the same manufacturing broad standards to do multiple batches when you've got a scientific platform that works, a vector platform that works and you're basically doing surgery on the human genome just
[00:27:27] in different locations? So, we made that announcement earlier this week. >> So, let me just understand that one. I've I've spent a little time in the space. Does this mean that I will not need to go through a GMP or good manufacturing practice facility to bring those therapeutics to a broader set of patients? And does it also mean that once I've got a system that works, I can use it for different indications? And
[00:27:48] maybe help understand a little bit about where this goes because there's many patients that today are looking at papers on cell and gene therapies, early data, and they're saying, &quot;When can I get access? I'm at risk.&quot; This matters a lot to patients. and maybe you can help contextualize how this translates into speed and and access. >> Yeah. So, the announcement that we made on Sunday was that we're going to
[00:28:10] customize the manufacturing requirements to the drug and the population being treated. So, there's a number of flexibilities including the ones you mentioned, but it's no longer going to be this hard and fast. You have to do it this way. For example, the three batch runs that have been required, those ingredients are expensive. I mean, those ingredients could cost $100,000 for just one ingredient. And so, we have to use
[00:28:34] common sense. I mean, when you see something uh perform, you know, something magical to a kid with no help right in front of your eyes, you've got to say like, what are we doing getting in the way? We just um had early in u our time there, baby KJ go from go home from the hospital, right? So this infant got gene editing therapy. You can't do a randomized trial on that. There's not enough kids who have it. So we these
[00:29:02] bespoke therapies. We created essentially a novel pathway for them. Uh Dr. Vani Prasad uh described it in the New England Journal of Medicine. It's called the plausible mechanism pathway and it's basically combining gold standard science with common sense. >> Right. And what about for CARTT therapy? So there's this blossoming class of therapeutics in CARTT that's historically been used exclusively for oncology for cancer. Um increasing
[00:29:28] discussion about using it for autoimmune conditions. Does this help with the CARTT therapy pathway and enabling faster routes to market and more access and lower cost? >> It can. And by the way, CARTT is amazing. Carti is amazing. I'm not here to pro promote any one class of drugs but I mean it the stuff that we have seen um is mindboggling. >> So yes >> and just for folks to understand when they take tea cells edit them and put
[00:29:55] them back in the body and those tea cells go after targets in the body and destroy those targets and many blood cancers uh are now seeing extraordinary results with these CARTT therapies and now they're going after autoimmune conditions. But it definitely seems to be that there there needs to be a faster path to market, lower cost because the pricing is half a million to a million dollars still. >> Yeah. It's amazing. We're essentially
[00:30:16] activating your own immune cells to to have a a very clear path and target something in your body that needs to be targeted. So it's now we did find um that there was in the Biden administration approval to have the cells of Americans for CARTT therapy shipped to China where the Chinese did the gene editing and then ship back to the United States to infuse in Americans. When I found out about that, we shut that thing down so fast. Yeah.
[00:30:45] So, uh we have to do things carefully. >> What else have you discovered since you've been in the FDA that shocked >> you? Just go on a side for a second. I'm I'm curious to know what are the biggest shocks that you've uncovered. I mean, you've now been there for some time, you mentioned before we sat down that you're actively digitizing millions of files >> that historically have not been digitized, and I'm I'm assuming you can
[00:31:09] now use AI and other tools to go read through them very quickly. What's been shocking to you? >> Where do I start? I mean, somebody was carrying a box from one building to another building with uh with a um drug file in it. And um it turns out that the lawyers said they couldn't email the information to the other center because, you know, each center was like their own secret government before we got there. >> Each center of the FDA.
[00:31:37] >> Each center of the FDA. >> Same agency. >> Yeah. Same agency. Seven centers. It was like, you know, they had their own boundaries and territories and, you know, lawyers. They had their own communication staff put out their own releases, uh, their own press releases, did their own legislative affairs with, had scheduled their own hearings. >> And the commissioner was out of the loop sometimes. And so, we restructured the