[00:29:28] discussion about using it for autoimmune conditions. Does this help with the CARTT therapy pathway and enabling faster routes to market and more access and lower cost? >> It can. And by the way, CARTT is amazing. Carti is amazing. I'm not here to pro promote any one class of drugs but I mean it the stuff that we have seen um is mindboggling. >> So yes >> and just for folks to understand when they take tea cells edit them and put
[00:29:55] them back in the body and those tea cells go after targets in the body and destroy those targets and many blood cancers uh are now seeing extraordinary results with these CARTT therapies and now they're going after autoimmune conditions. But it definitely seems to be that there there needs to be a faster path to market, lower cost because the pricing is half a million to a million dollars still. >> Yeah. It's amazing. We're essentially
[00:30:16] activating your own immune cells to to have a a very clear path and target something in your body that needs to be targeted. So it's now we did find um that there was in the Biden administration approval to have the cells of Americans for CARTT therapy shipped to China where the Chinese did the gene editing and then ship back to the United States to infuse in Americans. When I found out about that, we shut that thing down so fast. Yeah.
[00:30:45] So, uh we have to do things carefully. >> What else have you discovered since you've been in the FDA that shocked >> you? Just go on a side for a second. I'm I'm curious to know what are the biggest shocks that you've uncovered. I mean, you've now been there for some time, you mentioned before we sat down that you're actively digitizing millions of files >> that historically have not been digitized, and I'm I'm assuming you can
[00:31:09] now use AI and other tools to go read through them very quickly. What's been shocking to you? >> Where do I start? I mean, somebody was carrying a box from one building to another building with uh with a um drug file in it. And um it turns out that the lawyers said they couldn't email the information to the other center because, you know, each center was like their own secret government before we got there. >> Each center of the FDA.
[00:31:37] >> Each center of the FDA. >> Same agency. >> Yeah. Same agency. Seven centers. It was like, you know, they had their own boundaries and territories and, you know, lawyers. They had their own communication staff put out their own releases, uh, their own press releases, did their own legislative affairs with, had scheduled their own hearings. >> And the commissioner was out of the loop sometimes. And so, we restructured the
[00:31:58] entire agency. Now, we centralized those services. But in the days of this sort of siloed world of the agency, by the way, it was a nightmare for uh developers that had a drug device combination. Um, right. >> I mean, it was like gerrymandered lines of what was included in one center versus another center based on infighting. And, uh, you know, people had served long terms there. You know, they'd serve terms like, uh, President
[00:32:23] Mugab of Zimbabwe who'd been there, you know, forever. These people just were there forever, right? It was just their way. And, uh, anytime there was an opening in leadership, 19 times out of 20 it went to an internal candidate. So, you didn't have a lot of fresh new ideas. We have a lot of a lot of fresh scientists coming in there. I mentioned the 1,000 new scientists. We're we're on boarding right now um 450 of them. 50 of
[00:32:47] them already just started. But um I've met a guy who uh his job was to change the ink cartridge on a fax machine on one fax machine. Uh like healthc care has single-handedly kept the fax industry alive. >> Wow. >> Um the guy's job was the ink guy on the fax machine. to swap out the >> machine. >> There's a lot of that. There's a lot of that. >> Well, let's shift over to food. Maybe I'll just give you a moment to share
[00:33:17] what you changed in the food pyramid in the announcement last week. Why you made those changes and why weren't they made before? Yeah. So, we have had decades of medical dogma and corruption putting together food pyramids that make no sense. people can tell. I mean, the open secret was that they make no sense. They're scientifically inaccurate and they were often times curated by the food industry or the food industry's influence on
[00:33:48] academia. Nutrition science may be one of the most corrupted fields in all of science. And it gave us the dogma that we had to focus on saturated fat and just eradicating natural healthy fats from the US food supply. Ignoring that you replace fats with healthy with refined carbohydrates which are not healthy. And we have this carbohydrate heavy diet now for American children. And guess what? 38% of kids have
[00:34:19] pre-diabetes or diabetes. Is that a surprise? The rise has paralleled the shift from saturated fat or regular food to pumping refined carbohydrates and added sugar. 60 to 70% of the calories of a child in America today are refined carbohydrates. No one has talked about it. It's been in a blind spot as the medical establishment has had this myopic focus on the boogeyman of saturated fat. And so we had a food pyramid that was
[00:34:52] entirely backwards. And so we flipped it upside down using good science talking about a an previously ignored area of nutrition. And that is the importance of protein. We've been getting about half the protein that we need. The protein levels in the previous dietary guidance was really just to prevent withering away. We want our American kids to thrive, >> right? and and look at the status of kids today. Low in protein,
[00:35:23] muscle wasting, weakness, um underperforming in school, high in uh refined carbohydrates and added sugar, giving them that kind of uh sugar um sort of coma, food coma after a refined carbohydrate uh breakfast. Again, we hit them hard in the afternoon. They get very little or no natural light exposure. They're told to sit at a desk still for 7 hours a day. They can't do it. And what do we do? Tragically, we have drugged our nation's kids at
[00:35:54] scale. It's wrong. It needs to stop. We have to reexamine the root causes. And so, flipping this food pyramid upside down, focusing on protein is the first step. And so, I'm very proud of what we were able to do. What have you uncovered now that you've been inside the organization and you can see paperwork related to the legacy of how the old food pyramid was constructed and maintained for so long about the motivations who was involved in setting
[00:36:20] that food pyramid when you mentioned the corruption of nutrition science. Help us understand the root of that. So, I wrote a book um just before coming into office where I had a chance to do a deep dive and do some investigative journalism, if you will, to learn how this dogma of what to eat got we got so wrong. And I think it was a lot of group think just like we saw with opioids are not addictive. Medical establishment got
[00:36:51] that wrong for 15 years. Uh, young kids should avoid peanut butter until they turn three. We got that wrong for 16 years. Tragically wrong. Igniting the modern-day peanut allergy epidemic because peanut butter exposure in infancy reduces there's something called immune tolerance, right? And it reduces the risk of peanut allergies. We're the only country in the world that has high rates of peanut allergies along with UK and a
[00:37:19] few other European countries that fell for our dogma based recommendation to avoid peanut butter till the kid turns three. And so we got that 180 degrees wrong. And so there are dogmas in the medical field that take on a life of their own and you're not allowed to question them. And we saw a little bit of it during COVID if you recognized natural immunity and may not need to be fired from your job because you have
[00:37:45] circulating antibodies to COVID, but they were just antibodies that the government did not recognize. This dogma can take on a life of its own. And so we're trying to get back to gold standard objective science. It is crazy that the fundamental premise of science is you ask a question and then you test whether there's one answer or another. And the idea that you can't ask questions indicates that it's not science from my point of view. All
[00:38:13] standards should be challengeable. That you should be able to ask the questions and fundamentally if they they hold truth or they hold ground then great. Let's maintain them. And if they don't we should be able to change. And then they use the word science or historically the word science has been then used to justify not testing something. >> That's right. >> It's it's crazy to me. What are the roles that food companies have played?
[00:38:35] What are the roles that folks that might have an economic incentive in keeping the food pyramid as it was played historically in this? And is that permanently changed at this point or is it changed while this administration is here and it's going to change again next cycle? help us understand a little bit about you know the the the role that industry has in influencing some of this regulatory process. >> Well, I think the industry did what the
[00:39:05] medical field told them to do and that is to address the risk of mass starvation and deal with food insecurity and that calories in equals calories out regardless of where those calories come from. That was the dogma and sort of the the mandate to the food industry. So um they did what they were told to do and so they moved to refined carbohydrates. They stripped the grains of fiber to mass-produce them. They would even chop
[00:39:32] them up which made them increase your glycemic index. That is it basically function like sugar. So you have cereals, breads, pastas functioning like sugar. And so we ushered in a generation of kids and you and I were the first gener who were part of this the first generation in human history with massive insulin spikes daytoday in our normal everyday life. We've never seen insulin spikes to that degree. And of course
[00:40:00] that drives something called insulin resistance. That is the the organs in your body that do important functions are trying to block out all this extra glucose. And so they kind of um uh change the configuration of the insulin receptor to just try to resist all this sugar coming in. And it is at the root of almost every chronic disease. Insulin resistance, general body inflammation. And we never talk about these things.
[00:40:29] Never. So we talked about them front and center in our new uh guidance. The types of grains matter. It's not calories in equals calories out. It's not you can have this if you sit on the treadmill for this amount of minutes. We've got to talk about the soil that food comes from and the farming techniques that animal products come from and the cleanliness and chemical-free waters that seafood comes from and the importance of protein
[00:40:57] and the value of whole grains and what we call real food. And so the website is realfood.gov. My only criticism is the lack of vegetarian protein in the top of the pyramid where as a vegetarian I eat eggs and dairy. It could use a few more nuts and beans up top, but you know, I'll talk to Joe Gibbia about it. >> It could. No, it could. I think the New York Times had a conception about blue the blueberries. >> The blueberries.
[00:41:19] >> I think it was uh uh disproportionately uh disturbingly large >> disturbingly large blueberries. That was the criticism. Okay, that wasn't one that bothered me. Let's talk about the the adult population. I think 40 to 60% depending on how you measure it are obese clinically obese in this country and these incretin mimedics GLP1 drugs and others have really taken the market by storm taken our population by storm.
[00:41:43] So I realize that much of this is in response to an obesity epidemic that we're facing in this country. But it turns out that these incretin mimedics may actually have other systemic benefits and they're now I think there's 60 indications that they're being tested against including kidney neurological cardiac. I mean there's there seems to be a lot of benefit potentially in uh using them for other disease indications. Can you speak a little bit
[00:42:08] about your view on where this market where this class of therapeutics is headed? Is this something that some people have estimated or 60% of Americans are going to be on? And if it is the case, does that mean we failed with our food system? >> Well, first of all, we have failed with our food system. Look at the fact that 40% of American kids have a chronic disease. Between the lines in the medical textbooks in medical school was kind of
[00:42:33] a blaming of children for not having the discipline. And it's not a willpower problem. This is highly addictive uh chemicalized foods that are ultrarocessed that are put in front of kids and they want more and you you put these vibrant colors in them from the petroleum based dyes. And so this is something adults have done to kids. And so I think that we have failed. We've given people the wrong information. The
[00:43:00] calories in equals calories out, this demonization of fat and all that stuff we talked about. um GLP-1s are mimicking a natural hormone in the body. And so when you get a supplementation of that, it's doing the job of increasing satiety, slowing down GI motility, and it has a profound impact on a number of conditions because you are also reducing insulin resistance and general body inflammation. And so that's why we're
[00:43:30] seeing so many other benefits. Plus, you feel better. When you feel better, you're going to have benefits you don't even we haven't even appreciated yet because there's an incredible value this sort of positive thinking. We've seen it in a breast in a lung cancer study from Mass General. They randomize people to palative support versus chemotherapy and the palative support did better even though chemo drug is is more effective
[00:43:55] than standard of care. So, um, you see this incredible value to sort of positive thinking and maybe that's one of the reasons we're seeing reductions in addiction. Maybe we're, you know, we're seeing cardiac benefits. So, we'll see. I mean, we're, you know, as a regulator, we're a referee and we want to see products come to market quickly and safely, but I think we're we're we're at a pretty interesting time.
[00:44:19] >> Yeah. Just to go back on the China point because we did talk about competitiveness with respect to speed, but the other piece I wanted to address was >> uh funding of research. So that uh that bioh technology council I mentioned recommended a $15 billion kind of rushed investment in in research. When I meet with scientists, there's a view that the Trump administration is anti-science, is defunding a lot of research institutions
[00:44:46] in the United States that are going to save people's lives and develop amazing cures. Why are they doing this? There's this council that recommends that even in the face of China, they're putting out tremendous funding to support research scientists coming up with those next set of molecules or therapeutic modalities that are going to change lives and improve lives. Maybe you can comment a little bit on are we funding
[00:45:10] through the government enough scientific research? What's the right steady state for us? And how do we address the the points about the Trump administration being anti-science? >> Yeah. Well, look, we live in uh partisan times now where people get spun up and they're in sort of a toxic polarization. And the truth is, if we want to know the facts, is that in the Trump administration, we have not cut $1 of NIH funding. We have not cut $1 to the
[00:45:38] general Medicaid budget. That is the overall Medicaid fund. And the proposal for the future is to increase Medicaid by $200 billion. So you hear all the time, oh, Trump cut Medicaid, Trump cut the NIH. No, what we want to see is reallocating money at the NIH from just chemotherapy and proton beam therapy work to study food as medicine and school lunch programs. and the microbiome and gut health. We've got to
[00:46:08] start talking about school lunch programs, not just putting every six-year-old on ompic. We've got to talk about the quality of sleep as it as it is a cause of high blood pressure when you sleep poorly instead of just throwing people on anti-hypertensive medications. We've got to talk about environmental exposures that cause cancer, not just the chemo to treat it. And so, we want to see funding go to root causes of diseases. And that is
[00:46:34] something that that has been unfortunately in a blind spot because the culture of the NIH is the culture of Francis Collins and Tony Fouchy and the group for the last 50 years that and I'm going to oversimplify it. The gene is responsible for our health problems and the gene can solve all of our health problems. Well, look, I believe in gene therapy and we're doing amazing stuff with that. But where's the research on
[00:47:01] why one in six girls today will develop an autoimmune disease? What's triggering that antibbody response? What of the many exposures in the life of a child is causing their bodies to be triggered? These studies can be done. It's not that difficult to model the antibbody that's involved in type 1 diabetes or MS and exposures in the environment to see if it is triggering that same configuration that the antibbody binds