[00:00:00] Marty McCary, commissioner of the FDA. Welcome to San Francisco. >> Great to be here, Dave. Good to be with you. >> Yeah, thanks. It's JP Morgan Healthcare Conference this week in San Francisco. Considered, I think, probably the biggest most important biotech conference globally. Very important week. So, you're visiting this week for the conference. >> Yeah. 120,000 people, great conversations. You hear from everybody.
[00:00:23] Just not enough time to meet with everybody you want to meet with, but it's a great time. >> Well, thanks for sitting down with me. You and I have gotten to know each other a little bit over the last year or so >> and I'm really excited uh to hear a little bit about how things are going. It's been almost a year since you've been in the role. I think maybe for our audience you could share a little bit about how you got this role. How did you
[00:00:44] get involved with this administration? How did you get connected with them? And maybe we can go all the way back to your very outspoken views uh during the COVID pandemic and maybe how that brought attention to you and your philosophies that that drove this role. >> Yeah. So my um interest in academia, I um went to graduate school for public health and served on the faculty of the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health as
[00:01:06] I also had a clinical practice in GI and cancer surgery at Johns Hopkins. And my interest was always in the root causes of our healthcare system problems from quality, transparency, and price. And in the work on price, uh, I led sort of a national effort to try to get more price transparency of hospital prices. I wrote a book on it that did very well. It took me to the White House where they had read the book, invited me in, and in
[00:01:35] that first Trump administration, we had a lot of great conversations and then they implemented the idea and I was so impressed. This makes sense. You know, we want common sense ideas. And so we got the hospital price transparency executive order signed by the president. That's where I developed some of the relationships and got to know the folks. And then when uh President Trump got reelected, he gave me a call days after
[00:01:57] the election and I was very honored to be offered this role. So, it's been awesome. Uh co, you mentioned CO, it was a crazy time. I mean, the sort of sociology of medical dogma is a fascinating historical thing and we still suffer from it. paternalism, the sort of suppressing ideas that are not the legacy ideas, the sort of sacrificing the basic principles of science to question everything to have no sacred cows. And you saw the worst of
[00:02:26] that bad behavior during co cloth masks on toddlers for 3 years, vaccine mandates for young college students, recommending COVID boosters with such absolutism and young healthy children. you the um ignoring natural immunity. One of the most uh scientifically dishonest things a scientist could possibly say about the with the virus and the and the immunity and um shutting kids out of school for nearly two years which I fought tooth
[00:02:56] and nail along with Jay Bachari and others starting in the fall of 2020. We initially we were okay just doing stuff while we didn't understand it but once the data emerged we made a strong case to reopen the schools and to some degree I feel like we lost that battle but people now see that the data has caught up with public health officials and so I'm proud to be in office now to be a part of an effort to rebuild public
[00:03:20] trust in our health institutions and you must be having a lot of conflict then because you really are fundamentally trying to rewrite the way these institutions operate have operated and in some sense you are degrading the success and the career and the authority that some have vested themselves over time in those roles. How has that been and and what's the push back been like as you've kind of gone through this
[00:03:48] exercise? >> So I meet with folks at the FDA and if you meet with them with their bosses and everybody in the room to get a briefing on a topic then they give you one glowing story. But if you meet with one individual scientific reviewer and give them the safety of anonymity and say look I want to hear how is it going on the ground or what big ideas do you have that you've always wanted to do but not been able to do four out of five people
[00:04:18] or sometimes more will will not not really give you anything interesting but then somebody will say you know it makes no sense that we do it this way and we could do it better and we could do it this way something they they wouldn't feel comfortable offering if their supervisor were in the room. And so we've been running with these ideas. We have announced 42 major reforms in my 10 months in office at the FDA
[00:04:42] and it it has challenged the status quo of doing things. But we have to I mean it why does it take 10 to 12 years for a new drug to come to market? We've become so lukewarm and passive accepting that horrible uh timeline that that has just become the status quo. We've got to challenge these deeply held assumptions. And we're doing it. We are doing it with new programs, new priority reviews, new pilots, new forms of transparency. We
[00:05:08] made our our rejection letters public so that if the FDA does not approve a drug, the public deserves to know why. And it creates accountability. >> And that was not the case before. They talked about it for 30 years and we got it done. They talked about banning one food diet for 35 years. Within weeks of coming into office, we took action to remove all nine artificial petroleum based diet. So, we're getting stuff
[00:05:30] done. We're not afraid to move fast. And in that role, some people have left the FDA and then they've been outspoken critics of yourself. Maybe you can respond to some of the criticisms that it's chaotic, that there's a lot of turmoil. I've worked at many startups. I know that when you move fast, things feel or they may feel too busy or they may feel like there's too much going on. It's overwhelming at times, but at the
[00:05:54] end of the day, progress is what matters. Maybe you could just comment on some of the reports made by employees that have quit the FDA, left and and and provided some comments on how things are going. >> There were 2,000 HR people at the FDA just before I got there. There were 1,500 IT people. And so, for a staff of how many total? >> 20,000 employees just before I got there. And so there was a goal to say, hey, we're going to go back to 2019
[00:06:25] staffing levels and the cuts are not going to be to scientists or reviewers. No scientific reviewer was laid off. But there were significant consolidations in HR, procurement, IT, and the duplicative services that were out there. Now, anytime you do something in government, you you take headline risk, but we felt it was the right thing to do. And so I came in right after that uh massive sort of change. And since then we've had a
[00:06:53] great culture. We've had more teamwork. We have new leaders. And they believe in this new vision. The number one priority of the commissioner that preceded me, he said, was to fight misinformation. >> Well, my number one priority is not to censor Americans. It's to deliver more cures and meaningful treatments faster to the American public and healthier food for children. And I think every employee at the FDA knows that mission.
[00:07:18] We have incredible teamwork. Um our turnover rate is at the baseline 5 to 7% that has been there for the last 10 years at the agency. So there's no exodus, there's no mass uh departures. We are actually hiring 1,50 new scientists because we have very ambitious goals on our new pathways. accelerated type pathways. And so we're um building up capacity to have a whole new line of pathways so that we can deliver faster for the American people.
[00:07:50] >> Great. Well, look, let's start with a framing. The framing is the US verse China. I want to read this report that came from the Congressional National Security Commission on Emerging Biotechnology. We're here at a at a biotech conference. So, I figured we could start here because everyone's talking about China and the race against China. The US, according to this commission, has a three-year window to act to keep up with Chinese innovation
[00:08:12] and the speed in biotech. In 2022, Chinese companies were just 5% of licensing deals. 2025, 42%. And recently, one of the biggest licensing deals ever was 3S Bio 1.25 billion up front with a $6 billion total with Fizer. China had 10 years ago only 50% of published scientific papers to the US. Today they're 50% more than the US. So I just want to walk through your view on US biioarma innovation as it relates to China. Is
[00:08:48] there a race and if so what are the priorities for the administration in helping American biotech industry remain competitive? >> There is a race and when we came to office we were losing that race. We were behind. we were getting clocked by China, by Australia and other countries that were doing things more efficiently with less red tape and um we made it a massive priority to say we need to uh retain our number one position in life
[00:09:19] sciences and biomedical research and we've got to think innovatively so we can come up with some protectionist strategies but ultimately what we need to do is be more competitive with what's going on with phase 1's and INDs overseas. So that means we need to rethink our entire phase one uh process. We have to convene hospitals uh who are um so part of the problem is outside of the walls of the FDA. When hospitals have IRBs,
[00:09:48] that is the institutional review review boards that approve research that meet monthly and you know at at Johns Hopkins I had a study took a year and a half to go through the IRB. It was a survey. What are we worried about? It was a survey. It was a nutrition survey and at the end of a year and a half it was not approved. That kind of stuff is intolerable when we're competing with uh China where they're doing phase ones in 4 weeks with
[00:10:17] uh Australia that's doing phase ones in 6 weeks. And so we need to uh have more centralized IRBs and we need to streamline the hospital contracting because right now if you want to do a trial each hospital wants to negotiate their margin of what they want and and sure they have to customize the contract because every study is different has different requirements and resources that are needed. But you go to Australia
[00:10:41] and they say sure sign here on the dotted line you have access to these 14 hospitals or so. And so we have got to have more centralized contracting and a centralized IRB in order to compete. Those are big priorities. And we also have to reduce the red tape and regulation on our own IND's phase ones. And the entire process, you know, when we came in, it took 60 days for the FDA just to tell you whether or not they
[00:11:06] were going to consider a supplemental application. I mean, that kind of stuff is intolerable in the modern world. It took and you know some often still takes 60 days just for the FDA to tell you that your application is complete. We're going to get that down to one day. We're going to use AI. So we've got to modernize the agency and be more competitive, not just talk about protectionist strategies. As you think
[00:11:31] about those work streams in improving the efficiency, turnaround time, how much can you do this on your own versus how much do you need Congress to act to pass legislation to support those changes? And are there priorities that you're working with Congress on to try and accelerate drug approval timelines that are necessary? >> So, right now we have user fees, which means if you submit an application, there's a fee associated with it because
[00:11:56] there's an unknown number of applications each year. So, it it's a system that's been around for a while. And so, uh, I'd like to see those user fees much higher if your phase one is done overseas. And if it's done in the United States, it's going to be a lower user fee. That's what I'd like to see. It's an America first policy. I'd love Congress to do a bunch of stuff, but we're not going to wait for them. Congress is slow. We're moving
[00:12:19] incredibly fast. You know, our number one goal was to make sure that the morale was good, the culture is good, and the and the trains are running on time, coming in right after the restructuring. I'm proud to report this year in 2025, this past year, we hit 100% of our user feed target dates, that is the trains were all running on time, that every accept or reject decision by the FDA, was consistent with the accept
[00:12:44] or reject decision by the primary review team. That is, we're not doing secret deals. We're not messing with things. We are standing by our scientists. And last month we had a record number of drugs approved by our center for biologic cell and gene therapies and other nine drugs. And so we want to keep going hard and strong and innovate. But the first goal in the first nine months was to make sure the trains are running on time and
[00:13:09] that we are strong. And I'm happy to report the FDA is strong and is going to continue to be strong. And going back to this point about cutting down on timelines for phase 1 2 3 maybe you can just for the audience that may not work in this industry very briefly explain phase 1 2 3 >> and then where we think there's the biggest kind of uh call it excess regulatory burden that's causing these extended timelines on drug approvals
[00:13:35] just just to kind of frame it up a little bit. >> Sure. So there's an something called the IND investigational new drug registration process. That's step one. Most of those are actually filed by academics and I think people forget that we still have a lot of great innovation in our academic spaces. It's not just the pharma labs. Uh then you uh try a drug in healthy subjects. That's called a phase one trial. Typically a small
[00:13:59] number, a handful. And then you give the drug to subjects with the condition and that's a phase two. It's a limited study. And then phase three is a large randomized control trial. We call it the pivotal trial. We announced just last month that we are going to go from a baseline default requirement of two pivotal trials for a drug to one pivotal trial for a drug. It's just math. You can achieve the same statistical power
[00:14:25] if you design one good clinical trial properly with a good control group. Uh and so that by the way that saves like a hundred million to $300 million for some companies. Shortens the time. We're reducing animal testing. That's the preend or prephase one work. that is how does it work in animals? We are eliminating a lot of animal testing requirements. We have a roadmap. You no longer officially have to submit
[00:14:51] chimpanzeee studies for monoconal antibodies. That was announced two months ago. We said um so typically 144 chimpanzees are used for a monoconal antibbody. By the way, it's it's >> you're making me sick because this has always been from my point of view one of the most troubling bioethical concerns I've had about the the industry because you don't get a lot of statistical power or benefit from doing this and it's just
[00:15:16] awful that we do it. But >> you you actually get misleading information sometimes. Some say aspirin would not have been approved today if we had the old animal testing requirements to species because drugs that are uh have safety concerns in animals may not have safety concerns in humans. So we may miss out on cures and vice versa. 90% of drugs that pass animal studies do not pass safety and efficacy in humans.
[00:15:39] So what are we doing? We have computational modeling now. Computer can look at a drug and actually make better predict predictions and we have something called organ on a chip technology where you grow say the liver cells or heart cells in a lab administer the drug and then look for any enzyme leaks or disturbances. These are modern techniques. We've got to modernize the agency. It's a massive goal. So >> and they're doing it in China. They're
[00:16:01] doing it in China. And >> if we don't, then we're also putting our industry at risk. >> We've got to be more competitive, 100%. And so what does this do? It compresses the time for approval. It allows R&amp;D to be done at a lower price point, translating into lower drug prices for everyday Americans. More drugs can be evaluated. I mean, I had one pharma executive tell me, &quot;Hey, I love you're going from 2 to one pivotal trials. That
[00:16:24] means we can run twice as many drugs through large pivotal trials.&quot; That's what we want. We want to see more. Look, I'm coming in with a bi. We all have our biases. I have a bias and it's just a matter of recognizing your biases when we talk about reforms. My bias is being at the bedside breaking bad news to people with incurable conditions or being at the bedside in the ICU. And when you do that, it has a profound
[00:16:50] impact on your brain and your soul. and you think about what can we possibly do to give this individual some hope. And so when I see a 10 to 12 year time period of bringing a drug to market, I think in the modern world it makes no sense. Just think about the advances in science and technology. So I'm committed to that mission. And we've got a new pilot program now to get decisions out in weeks. >> It's unheard of. It's unprecedented. Uh