[00:44:46] in the United States that are going to save people's lives and develop amazing cures. Why are they doing this? There's this council that recommends that even in the face of China, they're putting out tremendous funding to support research scientists coming up with those next set of molecules or therapeutic modalities that are going to change lives and improve lives. Maybe you can comment a little bit on are we funding
[00:45:10] through the government enough scientific research? What's the right steady state for us? And how do we address the the points about the Trump administration being anti-science? >> Yeah. Well, look, we live in uh partisan times now where people get spun up and they're in sort of a toxic polarization. And the truth is, if we want to know the facts, is that in the Trump administration, we have not cut $1 of NIH funding. We have not cut $1 to the
[00:45:38] general Medicaid budget. That is the overall Medicaid fund. And the proposal for the future is to increase Medicaid by $200 billion. So you hear all the time, oh, Trump cut Medicaid, Trump cut the NIH. No, what we want to see is reallocating money at the NIH from just chemotherapy and proton beam therapy work to study food as medicine and school lunch programs. and the microbiome and gut health. We've got to
[00:46:08] start talking about school lunch programs, not just putting every six-year-old on ompic. We've got to talk about the quality of sleep as it as it is a cause of high blood pressure when you sleep poorly instead of just throwing people on anti-hypertensive medications. We've got to talk about environmental exposures that cause cancer, not just the chemo to treat it. And so, we want to see funding go to root causes of diseases. And that is
[00:46:34] something that that has been unfortunately in a blind spot because the culture of the NIH is the culture of Francis Collins and Tony Fouchy and the group for the last 50 years that and I'm going to oversimplify it. The gene is responsible for our health problems and the gene can solve all of our health problems. Well, look, I believe in gene therapy and we're doing amazing stuff with that. But where's the research on
[00:47:01] why one in six girls today will develop an autoimmune disease? What's triggering that antibbody response? What of the many exposures in the life of a child is causing their bodies to be triggered? These studies can be done. It's not that difficult to model the antibbody that's involved in type 1 diabetes or MS and exposures in the environment to see if it is triggering that same configuration that the antibbody binds
[00:47:32] to. But no one's been interested in it because everything has been about coming up with a, you know, treatment when we have to look at causes, >> right? And the scientists on the ground see their funding go away. They complain. They get media attention. There's a lot of amplification of those stories. So is that not the fundamental truth because the money is being reallocated to other scientists and other research institutions?
[00:47:58] >> Correct. So um 14% of NIH funding went to DEI research. 14% >> 14% of NI NIH grants went to DEI research >> and NIH grants are about 40 billion a year. Does that sound >> uh it's it's a little over 20 billion in terms of grants that go out the door but about 47 billion for the entire NIH budget because they run their own hospital and clinical center and others. >> So um so if you think and and by the way I'm all for anything that reduces health
[00:48:30] disparities. >> Yeah. and increases access. But these grants were not doing it. It was just describing health disparities. Well, it's it's we already know there are health disparities. Simply describing them with another 50 studies in JAMAMA does not help people who are suffering from these health disparities. So, um we've seen money shifted to root causes and areas of research that we need to study that we've not studied. At the
[00:48:57] FDA, we have put a big emphasis on the value of hormone replacement therapy for post-menopausal women. Something the NIH demonized for the last 22 years, saying that women shouldn't take it because it causes cancer. Um, when we came in, the NIH was a mess. Almost all the money was going to genetic research, which then becomes the priority of every academic institution. They're not studying causes and food and the microbiome and cutting
[00:49:26] edge areas of of of science. And they just had this myopic focus on one area. It's an important area, but it's one area. They were funding the Wuhan lab to, you know, get bat corona viruses and insert a furine cleavage site so it could infect humans. What are you doing? It's a bunch of mad scientists. Um, and 14% of grants were going to DEI. So the NIH when we came in was a mess. And under President Trump, it is massively
[00:49:52] being reformed. And Jay Bodyario is doing a great job. >> Okay, let's shift over to vaccines. Our wives had kids around the same time. Hope yours is doing well. >> Great. He's great. Thanks for asking. >> Yeah. And we talked about the HEP vaccine, which we declined on the day he was born. >> Cuz I started going very deep on what's the origin of the HEP vaccine the day that the child is born. Why why is this being given to them? We have no HEP B
[00:50:19] exposure in our household. We don't need it. Doesn't protect anyone else. What are we doing this for? You end up going down these rabbit holes and a lot of again what you mentioned earlier, you take for dogma and you recognize, wait a second, there may be some unfounded principles at play here. I should not be doing this. And we make a a difficult decision against the tide and the recommendations and suddenly you're in
[00:50:39] the social conflict with people around you, right? And it was very hard. >> You guys recently made some big changes to the vaccine schedule. I'd love to hear a little bit about how those changes were made, what were the big changes, and then, you know, kind of what got us to this point where when you look at the data, you're like, &quot;Wait a second, right? >> That may not make as much sense.&quot; Yeah. >> I'm just laughing as you talk, Dave, cuz
[00:51:02] you do, you know, you just ask some good questions like, &quot;Does does my newborn on the in the first hour of life need to be injected with a hepatitis B vaccine when the mom is hep negative?&quot; And within a matter of weeks of having broader conversations, you feel like you're a fugitive of the law, like you've done something, you know, terribly wrong for choosing not to vaccinate. We went through the same thing and and and you
[00:51:28] know, being a part of having a kid is so special. You know, we were talking about that. So, yeah, we just went through this. Our son was born about 6 months ago and, you know, the uh we were offered the hepatitis B shot. Now, maybe they figured out who I was and didn't push it as hard as some of my friends have had that it pushed on them and we declined. Um, you're preventing with hepatitis B an infection that is a
[00:51:53] sexually transmitted infection or can be uh get it from a uh bloodborne pathogen exposure. Uh, so that's not going to happen until they're a teenager at least or further down the road. But when you ask the question immediately you get this sort of antivax label or um >> or you have to qualify that's right >> I'm not an antivaxer but I'm asking this what what right what's going on here this sort of McCarthyism around this uh
[00:52:23] schedule which by the way the United States vaccine schedule was an international outlier with 72 doses recommended between the ages of zero and 18. So, President Trump asked us to review the um international landscape of vaccine recommendations and we looked at 20 other developed countries and found that not only are we the international outlier in in how high the number of doses we recommend is but that there's a consensus of a group of
[00:52:51] core essential vaccines and we wanted to put that in front of the American people to say look all vaccines are still recommended by the CDC but here are a list of core essential vaccines. So we gave them a list that constitutes about 38 doses from age 0 to 18. And the idea is to increase vaccination rates among children that have been dropping because of a loss in public trust by saying here's a hierarchy of what we believe to
[00:53:18] be a list of core essential vaccines. I don't want to see someone because you know a um a doctor's pushing the sixth COVID booster in a young healthy 12-year-old girl. I don't want to see the mom say, &quot;Well, I'm not going to get the measel shot in my next with for my next child because I am something's not right about this.&quot; 38 is better than zero. You can still get them all. They're all paid for, but we have a hard
[00:53:45] time in the medical culture, and this is part of the sort of the sociology of medicine, meeting people where they're at. For example, as a cancer surgeon, I would see women tell me they don't want to get a mammogram. I I disagree. I think they're safe, but a woman may have be concerned about the radiation, the discomfort, the inconvenience. 40% of women who are candidates for a mammog are not getting a mammogram in the United States today.
[00:54:14] Showing you the massive disconnect between the medical field and where people are at. Now, you know what we should be doing is we should tell those 40% of women, how about an ultrasound? It picks up 90 to 95% of the lesions that a mammogram would pick up. But doctors don't recommend an ultrasound because you're violating the gold standard and there's liability and there's, you know, and you're you're practicing substandard
[00:54:41] care and women may tell other women that they can also get an ultrasound and we don't want women getting an ultrasound instead of the paternalism that results in this disconnect is hurting people in the United States today. And so with identifying the list of core essential vaccines, we are trying to meet people where they are at to see more vaccinations because childhood vaccines have declined over the last four years
[00:55:06] of co because people have lost trust in the dogma of the cloth masks for toddlers and vaccine boosters in perpetuity and you have to fire a teacher if if she already had CO. Ignore natural beauty. You have they have to be fired from their job. that um absolutism has caused tremendous damage and we're trying to rebuild public trust. What's frustrating to me to observe is there are now states like California and the
[00:55:34] California DPH that are saying we're going to set our own vaccine schedule. We're not going to listen to the FDA, to the HHS anymore because they don't know what they're doing because they're Trump admin. They're not doctors. They're not scientists. Clearly, this is all political. And is there a process of engagement that you and your organization go through to try and bring some of these other folks along with
[00:55:55] you? Because I think the point you just made can't be a point that they can fundamentally disagree with. What is what is the process by which we can break the political ranker around things like vaccines and just take a very clear-cut scientific approach and get people aligned around this? Do you do engagement on this stuff? >> I don't. Look, I I think it's sad we have this toxic polarization that's crept in. It's it's in society, but it's
[00:56:24] now crept into medicine >> and it's a lot of character attacks. I mean, it was put together by doctors with impeccable credentials. Tracy Beth Hogue, MDPhD, phenomenal epidemiologist who is deep on the science on this stuff. you know all of us Jay Badacharia MDPhD memed Oz vice chair of surgery at Columbia University I mean these impeccable credentials 400 scientific publications I've published 350 scientific peer-reviewed
[00:56:54] publications in my career at the Harvard School of Public Health at Georgetown at John's Hopkins on the faculty tenure national academy of medicine didn't matter all the impeccable credentials you can put in front of people there's this sense of we just have to uh say the contrarian thing to whatever they are saying because of this sort of mantra of all vaccines are good regardless and you cannot have an honest conversation. I
[00:57:20] talked to doctors and they they've never heard of a vaccine they didn't love. Anthrax vaccine was a disaster. H3N N3 killed people. It was a disaster taken off the market. Rotovirus vaccine in 1999 taken off the market because kids were dying from interception. Roto virus is not in our core essential vaccine schedule in the United States. Overseas it's a little different but in in what we put out it's not in there. After mass
[00:57:48] vaccination with roto virus the number of deaths per year went from 3 to 1.6 >> or round it up let's say two went from three to two with mass vaccination >> and the vaccine that was used up until 1999 was taken off the market for safety concerns. So when you have a parent ask a question about the necessity or we cannot respond with absolutism, American medicine needs to show some humility. When I had a patient asked me a question
[00:58:18] I didn't know the right answer, I don't know. Maybe I'll look into that. Maybe one of my colleagues knows in co during COVID, the right answer many times was we don't know. >> Do you find that there's a path forward? >> I hope so. So, I mean, we're hoping to restore gold standard science and just talk objectively about it. We've had universities uh cancel uh crush censor railroad doctors that, you know, pose
[00:58:47] different ideas about things. And I'm not I'm not talking about the political hot button issues. I'm talking about the fact that ulcers were not caused by stress. They were caused by a bacteria called H. pylori. Well, that guy was, you know, railroaded. his research was rejected from the national uh meetings and then he gets the Nobel Prize because he ends up being correct. So it's it's not good for science.
[00:59:10] >> Most great scientists start out as heretics just to be clear by the way. That's right. Yeah. So Marty, one of the other big challenges that we talk a lot about in this country is the cost of drugs. Healthcare today costs roughly 15% of our GDP. That's an insane statistic and it is rising year after year in the United States and it's such a complex issue. By some measurements though, the price of drugs in the United
[00:59:36] States is almost three times what it is outside the United States. So I'd love to hear a little bit about the specific role of pricing drugs. What sort of actions have you guys taken and can you take to help bring down the price of drugs for patients, for for care providers, for insurance companies, and ultimately for the economy? >> It's been the great American ripoff. You could buy a GLP-1 drug for $1,300 in the
[01:00:02] United States and go to London, it sells for $88. Or you go to Germany or France and buy any of the drugs that are cost a lot of money in the United States and they're half a third or a quarter the price. And so, President Trump has given us a clear charge and he says, &quot;Look, we're the largest purchasers of drugs. We want the best price in the developed world. It's called most favored nation status pricing. And thanks to Dr. Oz and
[01:00:28] and Chris Clamp and others at CMS, we did our part at the FDA to be a part of this. Uh we've gotten drug companies to the table and we've got them to agree to most favoration status pricing. That's going to radically lower the price of drugs. With the GLP1 example, for example, it's going to come down to $149 for the first three months. Um, other countries are going to pay more. We have been financing 60% of the R&amp;D cost to
[01:00:54] pharma companies. Other countries need to pay their fair share. And when it comes to this president, would be it NATO membership fees or whatever, he wants to see other countries paying their fair share. And so, we're getting that delivered. Another big way in which we are going to lower drug prices is by cutting the red tape at the FDA for bio biologic drugs. So most 51% of the So let me back up for a second. The
[01:01:21] fastest area of healthc care spending growth is drug price spending growth. And the fastest area of drug price spending growth are a class of medic medications called biologics. which means you need a cell line to manufacture them. And so these are typically the 60,000 $100,000 $150,000 medications. They have generic versions called bioimilars. But the FDA red tape to get a bioimilar approved has been so long and arduous it
[01:01:53] takes 5 to 8 years and $300 million or so. We have changed the requirements so that we use the same principles we use for small molecules. If you are structurally the same as a small molecule branded drug, we're going to approve you with some other stipulations. And so we are reducing the cost of R&amp;D of biosimilars by a hundred million plus dollars and we are shortening the time frame from 5 to 8 years to 2 and 1/2 years or more. And so
[01:02:24] we're going to see a whole new class of biosimilars come out in this administration that are going to finally compete >> with the biologics. Now humumera is one of the most famous biologics. It took years after that patent market exclusivity for a bio similar to come out and when one did come out you didn't see the price of hum come down that much almost sort of an an implied price collusion. We need a lot of biosimilars