[01:00:02] United States and go to London, it sells for $88. Or you go to Germany or France and buy any of the drugs that are cost a lot of money in the United States and they're half a third or a quarter the price. And so, President Trump has given us a clear charge and he says, &quot;Look, we're the largest purchasers of drugs. We want the best price in the developed world. It's called most favored nation status pricing. And thanks to Dr. Oz and
[01:00:28] and Chris Clamp and others at CMS, we did our part at the FDA to be a part of this. Uh we've gotten drug companies to the table and we've got them to agree to most favoration status pricing. That's going to radically lower the price of drugs. With the GLP1 example, for example, it's going to come down to $149 for the first three months. Um, other countries are going to pay more. We have been financing 60% of the R&amp;D cost to
[01:00:54] pharma companies. Other countries need to pay their fair share. And when it comes to this president, would be it NATO membership fees or whatever, he wants to see other countries paying their fair share. And so, we're getting that delivered. Another big way in which we are going to lower drug prices is by cutting the red tape at the FDA for bio biologic drugs. So most 51% of the So let me back up for a second. The
[01:01:21] fastest area of healthc care spending growth is drug price spending growth. And the fastest area of drug price spending growth are a class of medic medications called biologics. which means you need a cell line to manufacture them. And so these are typically the 60,000 $100,000 $150,000 medications. They have generic versions called bioimilars. But the FDA red tape to get a bioimilar approved has been so long and arduous it
[01:01:53] takes 5 to 8 years and $300 million or so. We have changed the requirements so that we use the same principles we use for small molecules. If you are structurally the same as a small molecule branded drug, we're going to approve you with some other stipulations. And so we are reducing the cost of R&amp;D of biosimilars by a hundred million plus dollars and we are shortening the time frame from 5 to 8 years to 2 and 1/2 years or more. And so
[01:02:24] we're going to see a whole new class of biosimilars come out in this administration that are going to finally compete >> with the biologics. Now humumera is one of the most famous biologics. It took years after that patent market exclusivity for a bio similar to come out and when one did come out you didn't see the price of hum come down that much almost sort of an an implied price collusion. We need a lot of biosimilars
[01:02:50] to come out and we're going to see the floodgates open up on biosimilars. And then a final point, why are a lot of drugs requiring a prescription in the United States? >> What are we worried about? Somebody overdosing on anti-nausea medication or somebody picking up a prostate medication without a a prescription. And we've got this is the the paternalism in medicine again coming out. the same paternalism that blocked women from
[01:03:19] having home pregnancy tests because you know women can't handle that information. They have to come in and we have to share it with them. It's this paternalism you see and by the way it happened again with COVID testing. We saw it well home COVID testing. We fought this battle. We wanted home COVID testing and the establishment was like no no we have to tell them they can't have this information. What are why are drugs not over-
[01:03:44] theounter? And we're going to so we are going to get more drugs over the counter. And let me tell you why that lowers drug prices. Because when a drug is on the shelf in a store, there's a price underneath of it. And there is something magical with competition and people who shop. Even if a small segment of the consumer market is shopping on price, it keeps prices in check for everybody. And so you will enable price
[01:04:10] transparency and you will bypass the crazy money games of PBMs, pharmacy benefit managers. When you pick up something behind the counter, they ring you up. You have no idea the shell game that's going on behind the scenes. Your with your employer is getting ripped off and your PBM is is making money on this and the broker who sold the PBM to the employer group could be making $6.50 50 cents on every prescription set for
[01:04:39] what? For the for the PBM just to tell you what your co-ay is going to be and set the co-pays. All of those money games disappear with the with the disinfectant of sunlight and a price on the shelf. We want to see a mass transition to more nonprescription drugs. We have new leadership that I brought in at the office of non-prescription drugs at the FDA. We want to see companies request to to be non-prescription
[01:05:06] and it it's going to have very simple criteria. If your drug does not have abuse potential, if your drug is safe, if your drug does not require laboratory testing, which doctors, you know, we often need to check your liver function tests. It does not need to be closely tracked. It should be able to be over the counter. If you're not going to use the drug in some meth lab to make some dangerous street drug, if you meet those basic criteria, the
[01:05:35] drug should be nonprescription. Think about the number of useless ER visits out there. Uh the whole medical industrial complex ch-ing every time you need a refill. Like I got pink eye from my kids and it was such a headache to get the drops to get my pink eye to go away. Like I mean I can't I spent so much money just getting a few drops of antibiotics to put in my eye. But if I were able to buy that medicine the
[01:06:01] antibiotic drops over the the counter or and I could just pick it up the shelf. How do I get my insurance to pay for it? How does that process work? Just explain to the everyday consumer what that's going to look like. >> So we need insurance companies to to um modernize how they reimburse for medications. And we're having these conversations internally as well because they had this old construct of here's our reimbursement scheme for
[01:06:23] prescription drugs and here's our reimbursement scheme for non-prescription drugs. Well, they got to modernize. We've got to come up to the 21st century. And remember, the insurance companies own the PBMs a lot of times. So, we've got to be honest. We got to all come to the table. President's bringing them all to the table and having very frank conversations. And he's been successful. I've got to imagine at 15% of GDP, this
[01:06:44] is a giant ship you're trying to reset and redirect. Can you get this done in this administration? Can you make the changes of moving many of these medications over the counter and get them to fit under insurance uh reimbursement plans? >> It's a massive priority this year for me. My one of my big 2026 goals is that we want to see more drugs move to nonprescription. I if writing a prescription by a physician like myself
[01:07:09] is supposed to regulate and serve as a way to administer drugs judiciously, then history would show we failed. Opioids and Oxycontton uh 60% of antibiotics prescribed in the United States are unnecessary. That study has been done over and over again 10 different ways. Most antibiotics people take they should not be prescribed. Um, so we have to talk about educating people, trusting people, and get away from the paternalistic model of
[01:07:43] medicine. >> Yeah. And well, I mean, look, if you guys get it done, I think it'll be a profound change for America for the the price of healthcare, which I think is really challenging a lot of people dayto-day. One of the other things that's been a little bit of a hot button is pharmaceutical advertising on TV. Yeah, >> some people have claimed that the pharmaceutical companies have significant influence over media because
[01:08:04] of the money they spend. They're one of the biggest spenders. I spoke to a pharmaceutical CEO about advertising. He said the ROI is incredible. We've never been able to influence media, so it doesn't make a difference to us in that sense, but fundamentally the reason we do it is because it gets awareness out there for therapies that uh patients might not know are available to them. and he said this interesting statistic
[01:08:24] to me which is that half of US physicians never see a representative to learn about new uh drugs that are coming to market and uh twothirds of physicians report never reading a journal article or going to a conference in the past year. So they're not aware of some of the new medicines that have come to market or coming to market. You've been a physician, you are a physician, you understand how this might go. You're
[01:08:45] busy. You're treating patients. You have a lot going on. Maybe you're not up to speed on on the newest medicines coming to market. What's the administration? What's your view on advertising, pharmaceutical advertising on TV? Where are things headed? >> Well, raising awareness, as your uh friend mentioned, is a good thing, but creating a misleading impression and creating a massive storm of demand where patients come knocking on our door,
[01:09:09] insisting and begging that they get certain medications that are not indicated for them is a problem. and the drugs that they are advertising non-stop on TV and and they're always singing and dancing, right? Always singing and dancing or marching from some fake town to another. I don't know where they're going, but it's always this sort of idea that life is great once you take this medication. Um, it's the biologics that
[01:09:36] they're advertising. And because they charge so much on the biologics, and look, they do cost a lot more to make, but because some of these biologics have been so expensive, that's where they're seeing this big ROI. So, we are lowering drug prices, and I think that's going to affect um whether or not it's worth it for them to advertise. We have a duty at the FDA to enforce two regulations that were not enforced in the Biden
[01:10:02] administration and that is that ads cannot create a misleading impression and that there has to be a quote unquote fair balance of information. There's also a loophole called the um uh adequate provision loophole which says you don't have to list all the risks or side effects. You can put it somewhere else like on a website. We're closing that loop. We're changing the regulation to close that loop. The Biden
[01:10:28] folks in the year before I came to the FDA sent out zero enforcement letters. A department of about 35 people in charge of sending out enforcement letters sent out zero enforcement letters. I sent out 1,500 enforcement letters, including over a 100 cease and desist letters for ads that were creating a misleading impression, including onlineies that are advertising drugs without the same uh um side effects that pharma companies list
[01:10:59] when they do the ads. And so we are cracking down on it. We want free speech, but we also want fair speech. And this is part of our jurisdiction. So, uh, so we are taking this very seriously. I I'd personally love to see pharmaceutical companies spend that 20 to 25% of their money that they spend on marketing, take some of that and use it to lower drug prices for everyday Americans. >> Okay, great. Well, sounds like there's
[01:11:25] some balance and change that's required. One of the other things that we talk a lot about in Silicon Valley is this shift in AI and using AI to diagnose your condition. And so many stories have come out where people upload their lab data or an MRI image and they're getting readouts that they weren't getting from the doctor or more accurate readouts or they're able to find care that they weren't finding through the traditional
[01:11:51] physician process. What's this administration's view on these AI tools? Are they a supplement, a replacement? And then how do we allow them to proliferate if they're they're good? And do they need to be regulated? or are we going to end up regulating these AI doctors, these AI medical systems? >> Well, first of all, AI is producing information at a rate that no one can keep up with. And so, if we use the traditional regulatory mindset to say we
[01:12:19] have to make sure the information is accurate, then you wouldn't be able to do a Google search because you're going to get a hit that's going to give you something that's not accurate. And so, what are we doing? What road are we going down? We can't outrun this lion. We have to use common sense and demarcate information that you're getting from AI that automatically triggers some health intervention that is sort of automated AI. And so last
[01:12:45] week at the Consumer Electronic Show, I outlined new guidances on AI decision support and wearables. And it creates a a clear consumer lane. But if you're making medical claims of a uh medicalra blank, then that's something we're going to want to take a look at and that's something you're going to want the FDA's seal about. So, it creates predictability because developers tell me all the time they just want predictability from the FDA. Markets
[01:13:11] want predictability, developers want predictability, and investors want predictability. So wearables meaning heart rate, blood pressure, that's right. Glucose monitors, those sorts of things get deregulated, more accessible, lower price, and so on. >> That's right. They're going to be deregulated. So you can give those results of any physiologic parameter. But if you say that it's a quote unquote medical grade blood pressure, then we
[01:13:36] are going to want to see the data to make sure that it's validated with the gold standard blood pressure readings. We don't want people redosing their blood pressure medications on something that claims to be medical grade when it it is not medical grade. >> Got it. Okay. One other area I've spent some time in in my career is in alternative proteins. And this is something that your agency regulates. So making animal proteins, eggs and cheese
[01:14:03] and milk and so on using bacterial or yeast cells rather than making them from the animal. You get the same protein. and you just use a different mechanism of making that protein or cellular meat where they're actually growing the chicken breast or growing the the beef. Um there's historically been a system called grass are generally recognized as safe that a lot of the companies have relied on as they've developed these
[01:14:26] techniques and these protocols. You've made a few changes. Maybe you can kind of highlight the balance between innovation because the benefit of these systems, lower cost, less energy, and you take the animal out, less cruelty. There's an ethical driver for some of us. >> Yes. >> But I'd love to hear the view on balancing those benefits against the the risks to consumer health. And there's an incredible amount of lobbying pressure
[01:14:49] from ranchers and animal agriculture against these systems that I'm assuming is starting to kind of make its way into DC. we've seen it make its way into states where they've banned it outright banned cellular meat in some states. So, I'd love to hear your view on this kind of alternative protein market and the changes you've made in grass and and looking out for consumers against the benefits. >> Um, you're making me hungry because I
[01:15:11] love eggs and I didn't get my egg breakfast this morning because we're out here at a bunch of meetings. >> But, um, >> I'll get you some eggs afterwards. >> Great. And not egg white only. I I do not believe in egg white only. I mean that is what are we doing? Egg white only eggs. I mean that's sort of the ultimate epitome of the old dogma. Um and and by the way my uncle um he came to the United States. He had eaten eggs
[01:15:35] every morning and he loved eggs. It was his livelihood is the morning eggs. And he came to the United States in his 30s and his doctor said no eggs. You know found out he was eating eggs and just you know wagged the finger and you know stopped. And so for 30ome years, he had this miserable life without eggs until we finally got to him and said, &quot;It's okay. Two eggs in the morning is okay. It's a good source of protein. Don't
[01:16:02] worry about the saturated fat.&quot; He's now 95 years old, I believe, in Florida. >> A happy man. >> Happy man eating his eggs every morning. >> I'm a two to three egg a guy as well. So >> Oh, you are? Okay. It's a great source of protein. Yeah. So um on grass, so grass uh for those who may not know is a way in which companies have created chemicals or brought in chemicals from the environment, added it to food and
[01:16:27] they could self-declare them as safe. And so u it's kind of a unique thing in the United States and it was started with good intentions so that the FDA wouldn't regulate you know salt and butter. You know what are we doing regulating salt? I'm sure some people want may want to, but we're, you know, we're not going to regulate salt. So, grass was created for for those sort of things like salt, but then over time it
[01:16:50] got abused. So, all the of these engineered chemicals would just get a free pass. And we've said, look at where we are today. Uh, you turn over the packaging of some of these ultrarocessed foods and there's 40 ingredients. Nobody knows what they are. And uh in Europe they have basic principles of introducing chemicals. Basically it's it's sort of if you will uh guilty until proven innocent that is you have to demonstrate safety to be