[01:14:49] from ranchers and animal agriculture against these systems that I'm assuming is starting to kind of make its way into DC. we've seen it make its way into states where they've banned it outright banned cellular meat in some states. So, I'd love to hear your view on this kind of alternative protein market and the changes you've made in grass and and looking out for consumers against the benefits. >> Um, you're making me hungry because I
[01:15:11] love eggs and I didn't get my egg breakfast this morning because we're out here at a bunch of meetings. >> But, um, >> I'll get you some eggs afterwards. >> Great. And not egg white only. I I do not believe in egg white only. I mean that is what are we doing? Egg white only eggs. I mean that's sort of the ultimate epitome of the old dogma. Um and and by the way my uncle um he came to the United States. He had eaten eggs
[01:15:35] every morning and he loved eggs. It was his livelihood is the morning eggs. And he came to the United States in his 30s and his doctor said no eggs. You know found out he was eating eggs and just you know wagged the finger and you know stopped. And so for 30ome years, he had this miserable life without eggs until we finally got to him and said, &quot;It's okay. Two eggs in the morning is okay. It's a good source of protein. Don't
[01:16:02] worry about the saturated fat.&quot; He's now 95 years old, I believe, in Florida. >> A happy man. >> Happy man eating his eggs every morning. >> I'm a two to three egg a guy as well. So >> Oh, you are? Okay. It's a great source of protein. Yeah. So um on grass, so grass uh for those who may not know is a way in which companies have created chemicals or brought in chemicals from the environment, added it to food and
[01:16:27] they could self-declare them as safe. And so u it's kind of a unique thing in the United States and it was started with good intentions so that the FDA wouldn't regulate you know salt and butter. You know what are we doing regulating salt? I'm sure some people want may want to, but we're, you know, we're not going to regulate salt. So, grass was created for for those sort of things like salt, but then over time it
[01:16:50] got abused. So, all the of these engineered chemicals would just get a free pass. And we've said, look at where we are today. Uh, you turn over the packaging of some of these ultrarocessed foods and there's 40 ingredients. Nobody knows what they are. And uh in Europe they have basic principles of introducing chemicals. Basically it's it's sort of if you will uh guilty until proven innocent that is you have to demonstrate safety to be
[01:17:19] introduced. In the United States we have this you know uh innocent till proven guilty. So we have basically said we have a thousand chemicals plus in the US food supply that do are not allowed in other food supplies. Froot Loops was making cereal for Canada where the petroleum based diets were banned and a different Froot Loops for the United States for American kids. And so we've said we have to close the loophole on grass. We started the
[01:17:49] regulatory process to do that. And then we have to think about creatively those situations you mentioned where there may be ways to get more amino acids in some of these foods. And we know that kids are low in amino acids and protein because of this myopic focus on fat as the boogeyman. We have not gotten the protein that we need. And and part of that was also flawed studies approximating how much protein your body
[01:18:14] needed that used ura nitrogen levels that massively underestimated the amount of protein metabolism in your body. And every food has different levels of protein bioavailability and amino acid bioavailability. So that's why you said you're vegetarian. you have to think a little differently about the protein requirements. Uh so all fun top >> but the cellular meat industry you don't think is doomed. There's a potential for
[01:18:37] the industry and >> it's going to continue to evolve. >> We've seen under my time at FDA we've seen new cellular uh food products come not just beef but seafood. >> Yeah. >> And it happens at the state level and the FDA actually does not have jurisdiction over what somebody creates but we do ask for a registration in a sense to be in the loop. >> Okay. So what is causing autism in the United States? >> Yeah, >> there was a conference a few weeks ago.
[01:19:04] You and um Secretary Kennedy talked about Luca Vorin as a new line of treatment for autism patients, but some people have since debated the merits of the data. Are we seeing rising autism rates in the United States? And what are the core drivers? What have you learned? And is this an ongoing process? >> Well, there is more diagnosis for sure. Um, but one in 12 boys in California now being diagnosed with autism. I mean,
[01:19:28] that you you didn't see that two generations ago. You didn't see the repetitive ticks and the self harm and the you didn't see that. You still don't see people in their 60s and 70s with those uh symptoms at the rates that you do in young kids today. So, something's going on for sure. Now, what's causing it? I don't know, but there's some interesting hypotheses. One is that for some kids it may be an autoimmune
[01:19:54] phenomena triggered by something where the antibodies are binding to the folate receptors preventing folate from entering the bloodb brain barrier. Folate is necessary for neural development. And so some doctors report and they're I mean these are experts in the field been studying this their whole lives and see a lot of patients. They have observed that if you give f um lucavorin as an example which bypasses the blocked receptor allowing
[01:20:21] methylated folate to get into the bloodb brain barrier they have seen clinical improvement. There's one study that's looked at the microbiome which we now know produces a lot of molecules involved in brain health. 90% of your body's serotonin which is involved in mood is made by your gut. And we're just recognizing this giant frontier of the microbiome. And so when we in the modern world, we we just torture the
[01:20:50] microbiome. I mean, so many things. >> Some things are necessary like C-sections, not good for the microbiome. Uh infant formula instead of breast milk, not good for the microbiome. Um antibiotics used like candy. The average 2-year-old has already received over 2.5 courses of antibiotics. It's carpet bombing your microbiome in certain places. And what results is bacterial overgrowth, less biodiversity, and you
[01:21:17] have more inflammation later in life. And when you have inflammation of the gut, most the most painful thing in medicine is when a tubular structure stretches. A kidney stone supposedly is the most painful thing. I've never had one. Patients say it is. It's not it's not the stone scraping along the lumen. It is the blockage causing distension proximally stretching the urer that's what hurts gallbladder pain stretching
[01:21:46] the gallbladder that's what hurts like crazy and the GI tract with low levels of inflammation is irritating that lumen and also causing this sort of um discomfort at a low level and and for a kid it may manifest as feeling sad or depressed and so we give kids all these chemicals and ultrarocessed foods. We alter their microbiome and we change the production of what comes out of the microbiome cells normally. That is certain vitamins, um,
[01:22:20] hormone regulation, serotonin. And what are we doing? We're ignoring this physiologic cause and we're drugging our nation's kids at scale. >> So, we've got to talk about the value of mic the microbiome. And I would not be surprised if we had the research on that instead of just the DEI stuff we talked about and study the microbiome the same way we were funding the Wuhan lab to study corona virus you know manipulation. I think we could finally
[01:22:48] understand this great frontier of medicine that may be involved in autism. One study has found that if you give a certain protease it can it's a randomized trial. I couldn't believe it when I saw it because and you know sometimes the studies are not reproducible in JAMAMA our most widely circulated medical journal a randomized trial giving a protease to kids with autism and noticing a an improvement now again it
[01:23:18] needs to be replicated I don't know if it's real but maybe there's something to the microbiome so I don't know what causes autism but we have some clues and this is something worth studying not just is there a genetic cure for autism. >> Yeah. And the underlying environmental contributors, there's just so much going on that's different in our environment, in our food system that are also being addressed that over time hopefully will
[01:23:44] result in maybe less of the general health effects caused by call it an adverse environment. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean there the number of proteins that we ingest that are denatured in some way. The number of chemicals or molecules that do not appear in nature that go down the GI tract. What's happening is you're getting an inflammatory response, but it's not a sudden acute inflammatory response. It's a low-grade response and
[01:24:09] it may be causing general body inflammation. And the one thing I wish I would have learned in medical school is that most chronic diseases are from general body inflammation and insulin resistance. Heart disease, for example, most common cause of death in the United States. We thought it was just saturated fat. Three large studies failed to show that association. The Minnesota heart study was supposed to be the endall
[01:24:32] randomized trial in the 1960s. It showed the opposite of what they thought. The low-fat diet group, this these are 9,000 motans randomized. Low-fat group had more heart attacks, not less. >> They suppressed the results for 16 years. When Gary Tobs asked the uh the senior author before he died, why didn't you publish this for 16 years? He said, we just the results just didn't turn out the way we expected. >> Well, other large studies failed to find
[01:25:04] this clear association between saturated fat. We're talking about normal saturated fat intake, not massive overdosing. Normal saturated fat and heart disease. And so um uh so anyway, so there are these things that we have to re-evaluate. >> Okay, last question. What's most exciting to you in the frontiers of science in human health? >> You know, we at the FDA try to be referees. So we see um different technologies competing. For example,
[01:25:31] cickle cell disease. There are monoconal antibbody treatments and there are gene therapy treatments. Now, we tend to get excited about one over another, but the reality is we we don't know which horse is going to win that race and so we want to be the referees. I would like to see in the Trump administration during our term a cure for type 1 diabetes or some meaningful treatment for type 1 diabetes. Uh a powerful treatment for
[01:25:57] ALS. um treatments for certain kinds of cancer where we've seen now PD1 blockers and K Rass inhibitors melt the tumors away so you don't need surgery or chemo. You talk about a health reform, that's that's more powerful than a lot of the health reform ideas we have out there. You don't need surgery or chemo or radiation. I mean, think about the reduction in expenditures. Um we'd like to see a universal flu shot so we're not
[01:26:25] guessing every year. something that gives you lifelong protection against future strains because it targets a different part of the influenza virus. And I would like to see something powerful for PTSD. Um, a lot of Americans are still suffering from PTSD, some from having served in a war. Uh, these are young people oftentimes who stood up to serve their country and, uh, they are suffering. uh we are still losing 7,000 plus uh veterans a year to
[01:26:56] suicide. So the wars are over, but our men and women keep dying and many of these wars were unnecessary. >> I think we owe it to them to deliver a powerful treatment for PTSD if the data supports that there's something out there. So that's one of my personal goals. >> You're optimistic about the pipeline you're seeing there? >> Very optimistic. I mean, we're just seeing really interesting stuff. It's been published in part, so I'm not
[01:27:18] sharing anything here that's not public, but we've seen phase two trial results that are promising. And I go, you know, I go Dave to the re scientific reviewers at the FDA. >> Yeah. >> Without their bosses, just one-on-one, and I ask them, are you seeing anything early on that looks amazing? Are you seeing anything in the pipeline, anything in animal studies that's actually working in animals that could extrapolate to humans in a way that
[01:27:45] could be a gamecher? And I'd say 90% of the time they say nothing really that much of a leap. We do a lot of non-inferiority studies, for example, but every now and then somebody will tell me, &quot;Yeah, there's this mechanism. It's creative. It's different. And if it works, it'll be amazing.&quot; and we'll often issue that company a priority voucher. >> Um, a treatment came out for a certain type of congenital deafness. It's a gene
[01:28:15] therapy device combination. It came out in the New England Journal of Medicine. We read the article because we love to read these articles. That's our nature. And we called the company and we confirmed about a dozen kids got it. A couple had normal hearing. I mean, that's amazing. And so we immediately issued them a voucher. a new treatment for multiple myoma that was a gamecher. Three times better than anything out
[01:28:39] there now. Uh 80% remission free survival I believe it was uh at a couple years out. There's nothing like that on the market. We called that company. We had internal discussions within 24 hours of that abstract being printed in the pre-conference materials for the American Society of Hematology. We had been in touch with that company and issued them a voucher. What are we waiting for? Right? What are we worried
[01:29:04] about? We have got to move at the speed that my patients demanded, not at government speed. So, we are streamlining and modernizing the FDA. And we are not wasting time. We're getting stuff done. >> Well, for that, I don't know how anyone could disagree with the sentiment, the intent. Thanks for the service. Thanks for the work, Marty. It's been great chatting today and thanks for being with me. >> Great to be with you, Dave. Thanks so
[01:29:27] much. I'm going all in.