[00:17:52] years after founding Sumate. >> Yeah. Sumate was like an awakening for me and for many Venezuelans. We we realized that we could not rely our citizenship in political parties and that you cannot be complaining about politics if you're not willing to do your own part. And that's why you know, it came a day when I said, "Look, you know, I I I know how politics are doing, how it works. I don't like it. So, I cannot complain if I'm not
[00:18:22] willing to take my own steps. So, I I took this fellowship to to to a program in leadership at Yale University. And and it you know, it was like seeing my life from above and I made that huge decision that I was going you know, go for it. I was I was going to run for Congress. I had no political party. I had no experience. You know, everything was against me. Everybody told me you are crazy. You are never going to win. You
[00:18:54] are never going to get support. Nobody's going to support someone, you know, whose family has resources, who's a woman. You are divorced. You are not a socialist. I mean, I had every single condition to fail. >> [laughter] >> And uh I I I decided, you know, I I felt it was my responsibility. I could not, you know, get afraid of and and I trust my own, you know, feeling. And it was impressive. You know, volunteers started
[00:19:33] you know, contacting me and in a matter of months with no money whatsoever, no organization, no media, nothing. Uh I won I won the primaries and then I for the for the National uh Assembly. And that was in 2000 uh, 10 and and then I won the the election with the highest number of votes in in Venezuelan Congress history. Amazing. How much of a role did the internet play? I worked at Google a long time ago and we always had this
[00:20:09] conversation that the internet is going to create a democratization of information that you no longer had centralized control of information through media and in the case of Venezuela that is effectively controlled by a government that wants to stay in power. Did the internet play a role in giving you the ability to reach people around the country in 2010 to be able to get elected? Absolutely. And not only that,
[00:20:37] in 2010, I wouldn't have won if it wasn't through the internet. >> Right. I mean, no media outlet would dare to interview me. And it was a way in which we could organize because we had no resources. But further ahead let me tell you, I know how there are so many concerns about the use of technology by by the by bad guys and and and by by the regimes that are autocratic and Venezuela is, you know, what? A textbook case of how you get
[00:21:06] infiltrated, persecuted, manipulation and so on. But if it wasn't for technology we wouldn't be here at the threshold of freedom. And and this is something that we need to really highlight it. So you are, like all great revolutionary leaders, speaking truth to power. You have a seat at the table now. You're in the National Assembly. And then in March of 2014 you address the Organization of American States about Venezuela's human rights.
[00:21:39] And then a few days later you were expelled from the assembly. And then there's all this legal stuff that happened which we don't need to get into. But can you just frame up what happened in that moment? Kind of what your your narrative is on the transition where they said you can no longer be a representative here anymore. Well, I had had a previous experience just one year before because we went for a presidential
[00:22:03] election and we won against Maduro when Chavez died. And they they committed fraud and we weren't able to prove it that that we had won. And that was in in in in April 2013 and and I went back to the National Assembly, I stood up and I said Maduro is not the legitimate president. We won. And suddenly I hear someone calling my name, I turn around and there was this member of the parliament of the Chavista regime that hit me on in the face
[00:22:38] and she broke my nose in five pieces. And and and and we were locked in in Congress. I was thrown to the floor, I was kicked by this And Diosdado was watching everything. He was the person that the National Assembly. So this was, you know, an an evidence that violence had gotten out of control. Imagine if you can do that in a in a TV TV, it was seen on TV throughout the the country and the world while while they were assaulting us. So
[00:23:11] next year we started peaceful protest and and the regime ordered young people that were in the streets, you know, just with with with with flags to be shot at. So I went to the OAS, Organization of American States and it was the first time Maduro was accused of human rights violations internationally. As soon as I came back they they they, you know, just ejected me from the National Assembly and by force prohibited me from going back into
[00:23:44] my seat. So um it was a very hard moment but at the same time it was a great opportunity because I realized that I needed to reach out personally to to our country and create a totally new organization that promoted our ideas and prepare for the next stage of of the struggle. And this was in 2014. Can you share about the Maduro transition? Maduro is on paper seemingly wouldn't have been the natural successor to Chavez.
[00:24:21] He started out as a bus driver and then he was a union leader. It's unclear from the outside what makes Maduro the the selected successor to Chavez. What is it about him as a man, as a person, with his character that made him the successor to the Chavez regime? Well, Maduro was trained in Cuba. So it was the Cubans who chose Maduro. It was a very easy option for them, totally loyal to the communist Castro regime.
[00:24:50] And um Maduro has no no you know, no nothing restricts him from exercising, you know, violence and and and and and force for his ideas. And certainly he doesn't have Chavez charisma. Uh, not not the the degree of control in in the other groups. So they were creating, you know, like a group of of individuals that at the control of the the system, the strategy, the the structure that control the military, the financial
[00:25:28] enablers, the criminal networks and the political sectors. And that's how he he went over taking more and more control and turning Venezuela, as I mentioned before, into this safe haven of criminal activities. And he himself turned into the head of these structures. When we heard about the Tren de Aragua, now about the Cartel de los Soles, the Cartel of the Suns. I mean, these are structures that we have denounced for years.
[00:25:56] And we have tried the the world to understand that this was not a conventional dictatorship anymore. This is a you know, a very complex structure that that, you know, produces obscene amounts of resources not only for that but also for very dangerous allies that come from very far such as the ones I mentioned before, Iran, terrorist groups and so on. They you know, they turn Venezuela into one of of the Russians' main buyers of of
[00:26:28] army and and and weapons and also one of the I would say that the major stronghold of the Iranian regime abroad. I mean, they use Venezuelan financial system to bypass financial sector financial sanctions and and they use our territory to to operate freely. And what about China? Can you share a little bit about China's relationship with Venezuelan leadership and Maduro and when that became a more kind of intimate economic
[00:27:04] tie? Well, Venezuela turned uh, to be China's main debtor with over 60 60 billion uh, dollars in in debts and that you know, accounted for all kinds of different projects that were never built. And and and certainly China realized that Venezuela's, you know, natural endowments are unique, absolutely unique. It was strategical. Um, nonetheless uh, the the degree of corruption in the system and in this system is so so big that China stopped
[00:27:44] funding Maduro about seven years ago and simply is getting, you know, the oil to to pay for the debts that are still um, pending. Um, I I I believe China, you know, understands the the the strategic importance Venezuela has also for its geographic location and but but has been more prudent because of the degree of of corruption that they have suffered from from Maduro and and the regime. But but there's also the side of
[00:28:19] the, you know, the intelligence, uh, espionage, uh, and technology and satellites from China that have been installed in Venezuela. That's a very important dimension for that as well. Venezuela is a country of I think 28 million people. By some estimates, 8 million people have fled the country. Does that feel accurate to you and can you provide some anecdotes of why people leave, where they go and what it's like in the
[00:28:48] country that's causing this mass exodus of the population? Look, we're the nation of a little over 30 million. I mean, this is a country where you have no information whatsoever. Imagine living in a country where you don't know how many you are. You don't know what's the the size of your debt or your GDP or or inflation, nothing. It's a black box. You know, that's that's that's why it's also a challenge in terms of what's coming up. But
[00:29:17] um roughly 9 million people have left. It is, you know, around 30% of our population. Imagine if a 30% of the American people leave, what it would mean. No, it's devastating because we're seeing, you know, our young people, our children doctors, engineers, scientists, nurses, teachers. And of course they go because the situation from the economic perspective is is horrible. But mostly because you don't see a future
[00:29:51] in your own country because you feel there's no possibility to survive. So, women that have left their young children back only to sell something for them to eat. Children that have left their parents alone. I I've met so many so many grandparents that have not met their grandchildren yet. And And they cry and help me and ask me, "Please, please bring my grandchildren back." And we all know that the only possibility for that to
[00:30:22] happen is that we, you know, have a transition to democracy. And when that happens, David, you will see the day Maduro goes, hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans voluntarily coming back. Even though they know it's a hard moment that will have, you know, to work really hard. But we we know the potential that unique potential. And And, you know, they want to be part of this It's much more than a political struggle.
[00:30:54] For us, it's an existential struggle as a nation and also a spiritual struggle as well. A lot of people will say, "Why don't they go on the streets today?" Can you talk a little bit about the intimidation of the Maduro regime and why it's so difficult for people to rise up in the way that we have seen other revolutions historically around the world. What keeps that from happening? What are the mechanisms that are used to stay in power uh by the
[00:31:22] Maduro regime? Look, and and we have seen that in Venezuela at many times as well. I mean, we're talking about thousands of times in protest, in peaceful, you know, rallies, in people going out by by tens of thousands of and even hundreds of thousands. But the regime has developed this regime, Maduro, with the Cuban intelligence mechanisms to infiltrate. And anyone who goes out is either detained, harmed, killed, disappeared. When we won the
[00:31:54] election last year, July 28th, thousands of people went to the streets while we were counting the votes. So, want to tell you a little bit more ahead. And, you know, in a matter of 24 hours, 2,500 people were in prison, including young people, children, women that were even sexually assaulted, abused just because they had gone out to the streets to peacefully claim for their right for popular sovereignty to be respected.
[00:32:28] But they went beyond that, David. They went to the houses of our of our of our activists that had been taking care of the election, that that worked as witnesses, that took care of the tally sheets. And And And they took them away. And if they weren't there, then they would grab their families, their mothers, their children, their their couples. And And And Every single person who even posted my picture on their on their, you know,
[00:33:02] Instagram account or X account, whatever, they would go and take them as well. So, it was so brutal uh that the Inter-American Commission of of human rights labeled it as state terrorism. And the fact-finding mission of United Nation uh has said those are crimes against humanity. It was so wide, so systematic that what they wanted is to terrify a society. So, we've had these last 15 months a period of of darkness as we've never seen
[00:33:41] before. I I was accused of terrorism. Maduro is searching for me. He said I would spend the rest of of my life in prison. Some people think it it would be even worse. Um But, you know, all my team, which, you know, managed the campaign, this incredible campaign that took place, are either in prison or they had to leave the country. So, this is the moment in which, you know, fear uh has been, you know, imposed by by brutal force. But that doesn't
[00:34:20] mean that Venezuelan society is neutralized in the country. As we managed to organize for an incredible epic episode when we won the election, now we have been organizing underground and preparing for the day in which transi- democracy will come and people will make sure it is an orderly process. Maduro has publicly said many times that you are a puppet of the West, that the US and its allies are trying to interfere in Venezuelan politics because
[00:34:55] of their economic interest in the Venezuelan oil reserves. I want to give you a moment to respond to those claims. I think you've done an amazing job highlighting your motivation and the on-the-ground experience, but um can we counter or have a conversation about this belief, which, by the way, many have made because of the US involvement in Middle East and Middle East politics, and the US's absence of involvement in
[00:35:20] politics in countries that are not oil-rich? Maybe we could talk a little bit about the the importance of this for the West, not just the economic interest, but, you know, what else is motivating this and why is the US interested in supporting your cause? That claim is not very original. I mean, that's what all of these guys say to anyone that speaks out, if even if it's, you know, a a a union leader, student, or a
[00:35:48] priest. And frankly, you know, I couldn't care less for what they say. You know, we know what we are, what we believe, and what the people and why people trust us. We have managed to build the strongest citizen movement in our country's history. Starting on 2023 when Venezuela looked hopeless and divided and without a chance to move ahead, we reached out to every single I went to every single corner of my country. Look,
[00:36:23] I went with my car because I've been banned from leaving Venezuela for over 12 years. I'm not even allowed to buy a a local flight ticket. So, they thought they were hurting me, but actually they they gave me that biggest opportunity to to to, you know, go through my country from one point to the other and to talk to people, to listen, to learn, to understand, to get really close in terms of what we are and what we believe, to
[00:36:53] turn down those barriers the regime had built to divide us, and to find out that this is not about left or right, rich or poor, black or white. It is about human dignity. It's about respect, solidarity, cooperation, freedom, and love. And love, which is the strongest force that has brought us together. You know, I've seen people that were close to the Chavistas for years coming to me, crying, hugging me, asking for forgiveness. And I said,
[00:37:25] "No, I have nothing to forgive. You know, we have a common goal now. We have a common vision. We all want our kids back home. And that's precisely what's happening right now. So, look, Venezuela is for me the country with the largest opportunities, not only for the United States and the rest of the West. I mean, imagine. And I'm not talking about our natural endowments, which are huge. We'll already address that, or
[00:37:56] infrastructure, or even our geographical position. It's our people, what if you have endured, and the way we have come together. And I've heard recently some people talking about that, you know, once Maduro goes out, because he will leave soon, you know, there's this risk of of, you know, um civil war or unrest. Give me a break. We're talking about a country where 90% of the population, we all want the same. There are no religious differences,
[00:38:26] there are no racial tensions, no social or political differences. We all want the same. And we have fought so hard for freedom that we are the ones who are guaranteeing that this will be an orderly transition. And yes, we are close to the United States values and culture. Yes, we are. We admire a nation that has strong democratic institutions, that feels proud for for their achievements, their history, their legacy. And so are we. So, look,
[00:39:00] you know, those kind of socialist rhetoric nowadays is useless in Venezuela. You know, we only know socialism. And Venezuela today is a country I believe that, you know, most people embrace open markets, respect for private property, merit, and collaboration. I want to just talk about the election, and then I'd like to ask your view on the United States today. But let's talk about the election. 2 years ago, you ran