[00:36:23] I went with my car because I've been banned from leaving Venezuela for over 12 years. I'm not even allowed to buy a a local flight ticket. So, they thought they were hurting me, but actually they they gave me that biggest opportunity to to to, you know, go through my country from one point to the other and to talk to people, to listen, to learn, to understand, to get really close in terms of what we are and what we believe, to
[00:36:53] turn down those barriers the regime had built to divide us, and to find out that this is not about left or right, rich or poor, black or white. It is about human dignity. It's about respect, solidarity, cooperation, freedom, and love. And love, which is the strongest force that has brought us together. You know, I've seen people that were close to the Chavistas for years coming to me, crying, hugging me, asking for forgiveness. And I said,
[00:37:25] "No, I have nothing to forgive. You know, we have a common goal now. We have a common vision. We all want our kids back home. And that's precisely what's happening right now. So, look, Venezuela is for me the country with the largest opportunities, not only for the United States and the rest of the West. I mean, imagine. And I'm not talking about our natural endowments, which are huge. We'll already address that, or
[00:37:56] infrastructure, or even our geographical position. It's our people, what if you have endured, and the way we have come together. And I've heard recently some people talking about that, you know, once Maduro goes out, because he will leave soon, you know, there's this risk of of, you know, um civil war or unrest. Give me a break. We're talking about a country where 90% of the population, we all want the same. There are no religious differences,
[00:38:26] there are no racial tensions, no social or political differences. We all want the same. And we have fought so hard for freedom that we are the ones who are guaranteeing that this will be an orderly transition. And yes, we are close to the United States values and culture. Yes, we are. We admire a nation that has strong democratic institutions, that feels proud for for their achievements, their history, their legacy. And so are we. So, look,
[00:39:00] you know, those kind of socialist rhetoric nowadays is useless in Venezuela. You know, we only know socialism. And Venezuela today is a country I believe that, you know, most people embrace open markets, respect for private property, merit, and collaboration. I want to just talk about the election, and then I'd like to ask your view on the United States today. But let's talk about the election. 2 years ago, you ran
[00:39:33] for president. You won the primary with a resounding victory in October 26, 2023. Today, you're sitting in a basement. You're not in the office of the president. Can we walk through what happened? What was that campaign like? How did you reach the people given that you didn't have access to the state media and then maybe share a little bit about that primary victory and what happened afterwards? Yeah, you know,
[00:39:57] we realized as I said in in January 2023 that we need needed to get you know, trust back in the Venezuelan people. Trust ourselves and trust each other. And and the primary had this incredible opportunity of giving power to the people and not the political parties that used to decide, you know, what which the candidates were. So, we decided to go for a primary and a primary in which the regime would not get involved. Uh in in Venezuela in
[00:40:34] previous primaries process the the the regime electoral uh or uh entity would organize the primaries and we said this time no way. We're going to do it all organized by citizens. It was a huge challenge and a great risk. And we believe the regime totally underestimated us. They thought that perhaps, you know, 100, 200,000 people might appear and vote and so on. And and that's why they they let it go, let it run.
[00:41:07] And when October 22nd, you know, it's 2 years ago exactly, they came. I was a candidate. There were 10 candidates and I thought, well, it's a miracle that that it's just this is happening as we as as as we're seeing it. At mid-morning around 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning, I started getting calls from all around the country saying, "We ran out of ballots." I said, "What do you mean? I mean, it's it's only 3 hours
[00:41:35] of of the process. What do you mean? We ran out of ballots." So many people showed up. Over 3 million Venezuelans. And it was such a courageous act, David, because going out meant that you were voting for the opposition. No, so this was huge. I'm talking about remote towns that we need to have river boats in order to get the results. And and also Venezuelans around the world because I insisted and many of us
[00:42:06] that Venezuelans abroad our diaspora should be allowed to vote. So, that day our country came together. I I I I am humbled. I am grateful. I I got 92% of the votes and and Maduro realized that, you know, they they wouldn't be able to stop me. So, they they banned me from participating. I confess to you that it was one of those really tough days in your life because it was so unfair. I mean, I had a mandate. But, you know, I could have blown
[00:42:42] everything, but I decided, "No, we have to keep on going and we're going to have find someone that is willing to take my place." And once again, the regime underestimated us because they accepted a 74-year-old diplomat that nobody knew who he was. A super honest, loyal, intelligent, good person. No one knew who he was. This is Edmundo González. Edmundo, exactly. Edmundo González son, our president-elect. And I had a poster
[00:43:15] with his face. So, I went all over the country telling, "If you want to vote for me, you have to vote for him." And this is the guy. And at the same time, remember we had had over 30 elections that progressively were more and more and more and more fraudulent. I mean, sorry. Edmundo González, he became your candidate in July of 2024 last summer, just to be clear, right? >> In in in May. May. Okay. Yeah. >> May. The elections were in July. Yeah.
[00:43:45] Elections were in July. So, imagine at this time, I mean, nobody knew who the candidate was and we everybody knew we were facing the most fraudulent system in the world. I mean, the concept of a fraud elections that are being spread in around the world, it was born here in Venezuela. With the electronic machines and all the the stuff they've been creating around it. Fear, manipulation, altering the uh register list and so on.
[00:44:17] So, we realized that we needed to use technology in our favor. And that's why we managed to create a legion of volunteers. We trained them without the regime noticing that we were training them. There were 5,000 uh sessions in person and over 300,000 people trained by the internet. We develop apps for for cellular phones in which, you know, we will monitor every single polling station around the the country. How many people did you recruit to this
[00:44:58] legion for the ballot monitoring? >> It ended up being more than 1 million volunteers. Everyone with a specific task. David, we had no money. We could not print flyers or posters. You know how much was our uh publicity budget? Zero. We didn't paid for one ad, nothing. When we went around the countries and we stayed in hotels, the regime would come the next day and close the hotel. If we went and stopped in the street to
[00:45:37] to buy some food, then they will punish the the the restaurant or or the snack place. I mean, they they blocked streets. They they got our people in in prison, persecuted those that were in control of the electoral and and organization departments. I mean, this was huge, but they turned this into an epic. And and citizens decided that it was going to be their own epic, their own victory. So, we trained all these people
[00:46:11] with our diaspora. We we we had these apps designed and we knew, and this is a very important part, that we had to prove our victory. For the first time, we needed to prove the results. So, we designed a a system through which we would collect the original tally sheets. We would scan them and we will publish them in a digitized webpage super robust for the whole world to see. And in order to do this, imagine we are
[00:46:51] in a country where 60% of our territory doesn't have access to the internet or even cellular phones. So, we needed to geo-optimize, you know, process centers to process the the physical tally sheets. And we did that uh with mobile, Starlink, and uh antennas [clears throat] into the country, generators, laptops, cell phones. And without the regime noticing it, we we we installed these 130 operational places and in less than 24 hours, we were able
[00:47:31] to prove our victory with the, you know, the images, original images of the tally sheets being seen and scrutinized by the whole world. They were audited by over 20 different independent technicians and universities and they all concluded that those were the real results. So, to be honest, I think we do have set a new standard for electoral integrity, not only in dictatorships, even in even for democracies. And
[00:48:04] the the data that you shared showed that you won a resounding victory. Your party won the the presidency and Maduro declared himself the winner. Since then, he's issued a warrant for your arrest. What is next for you? What is next for the country? Look, it's been such a long way. I mean, it's I have so many colleagues and friends that are currently in jail, that are very far away or even killed. I mean, this has been very painful.
[00:48:40] >> [snorts] >> But at the same time, we have grown so much. I mean, we're a different society, but also we're different and better individuals. We've learned the value of living in a democracy and being free. And uh now we've come such a long way. We defeated Maduro in the hearts and minds of the Venezuelan people. We defeated Maduro in the ballot boxes. We defeated Maduro in the spirit of Venezuela. And now the
[00:49:13] only thing he's got left he's he's, you know, violence and a few uh top brass individuals and financial enablers that have terrified those uh in the military that still are, you know, supporting him. But, you know, these last 15 months of resilience and resistance have created more and more pressure from within and now finally we're seeing a reaction from abroad. For years we have to ask the world to understand that this is a
[00:49:46] criminal structure and as such, in order to to break it down, you need to cut the inflows of criminal money that comes from drug trafficking, from gold smuggling, from human trafficking, from all or the black market of oil. You need to cut those inflows and that's precisely what President Trump is doing right now. And and and we are very grateful to see this international coalition that is applying, you know, the law the
[00:50:13] enforcement of the law on this criminal structure, which is what we need. I mean, Maduro for so so this long years have felt that he could, you know, disappear, kill, torture people with absolute zero zero cost. But the time of his impunity has ended. And and and you know, I I believe the regime is at its weakest position ever. They understand this is serious. There is a, you know, a real threat and we are seeing
[00:50:44] defections, betrayals, and more and more people from within the regime reaching to us. And what we are saying is, look, we had offered possibility of a negotiated transition and now that that that day is close, we offer, you know, everybody that decide to step on the side of the law that they can be part of this huge transformation of Venezuela. Mhm. Can you highlight the moments of the American presidencies, the American
[00:51:16] administrations, Obama, Biden, Donald Trump, and how they have supported the cause and what's different today? I do have to say that, you know, we've had bipartisan support and you see that in Congress even yesterday, you know, and and because there you know, sensible individuals in the Senate, in the House that understand that it's, you know, it's for a humanitarian reasons because of its millions of lives at risk in Venezuela,
[00:51:48] but it's also for the national security of the United States. I think that's, you know, it's pretty well proven at this point. Um, but so far, um, you know, the world the words, only statements and no actions. And and when you face a criminal regime, uh, you have to understand that, you know, the way to reach peace is through freedom and freedom requires strength. And that is moral strength, spiritual strength, and physical strength. And and
[00:52:19] that's what finally the regime is facing at this point. So, you know, we are very we are very very grateful to President Trump and his administration for, you know, the visionary and decisive way he has acted, calling things by their names. It requires courage. There are a lot of people who are willing to do that before. So now the we are prepared for an orderly transition. We know what we need to do in the first
[00:52:48] 100 hours, 100 days to take control of the institutions and our territory. Um, Venezuela has been destroyed in every [clears throat] possible way. You see it in our economy, in our security, in our national sovereignty, in in in in you know, in the public services, basic services that people require. But our people are tougher and stronger [clears throat] than him. And we are determined to be free. So, this is going to be like it's going to
[00:53:24] be a rebirth. We're going to turn Venezuela from the criminal hub of the Americas into the energy hub, the technology hub, and the democracy hub of the Americas. And and it we will need to do that from from from scratch, from ruins. But but, you know, we have a huge incredible diaspora that are willing to come back. Imagine, you know, with all the resources we have, you know, the energy that the capacity to to produce energy,
[00:53:56] not only natural gas and hydroelectricity, solar and so on, you know, we can we are going to be so attractive for for those who want to invest, as I said, not only in energy, but in technology, AI, data centers. I mean, we have everything to turn Venezuela into a bright and and proud nation very fast. And before we wrap, Maria Corina, I'd love to just ask you an important question, which is we are seeing a rise
[00:54:29] of interest in socialism that's unprecedented in the history of the United States. Largely fueled by what some would argue is a a challenging income growth situation, student loan debt. I mean, it's a very different situation than Venezuela, but many middle class American children are finding themselves unable to progress like every generation before them in US history. They cannot seem to create a better lives for themselves
[00:54:57] than their parents. And as a result, we are seeing in cities like New York, Zohran Mamdani being the favorite to become mayor. And presidential candidates being discussed that maybe also have a socialist agenda and socialist interest. I want to give you an opportunity to speak to the youth of America about the lessons learned with what Venezuela has gone through with its socialist cycle here. And maybe something that you could share
[00:55:25] that could help them think a little bit more differently about the choices ahead for the American democracy. Yes, um, we went through the same experience. You know, 26 years ago people would warn us and say, you know, watch out what socialism and communism could bring to you and we would always answer, Venezuela is not Cuba. That's not going to happen to us. And at the end, look what, you know, the disaster, devastation we had, you know,
[00:55:55] 9 million of our people spread around the world. And and the fact is that you can only live in peace and prosperity if you have freedom and and democracy. That's our lesson. And and those who offer to give you for free what you need to get on your own with hard work, at the end end up, you know, charging you with the the most valuable asset you could have, which is your freedom, your capacity to decide and to make your own decisions. And um,
[00:56:30] that's that's a great lesson. I mean, when you have the state on top of you, uh, that means whole society will probably be equal in misery and poverty. So, the the American institutions and American spirit and American dream. And I think these temptations come uh, many times and they they are good because they make societies reflect on what they have and understand that freedom freedom and democracy are to be defended,
[00:57:06] taken care of every single day of your life. When you lose it, it's very hard to get it back. And and that's the lesson we're going to give to our children and our grandchildren. And I I believe uh, the American people value what they have and I hope that, you know, having so many Venezuelan people around you can also gets you an idea of of of of the threats and dangers of these systems. Maria Corina, courageous speaking truth to power.
[00:57:40] I cannot think of a more powerful regime to speak truth to. And I thank you for your courage, for your leadership. Congratulations on winning the Nobel Peace Prize and thank you for joining me here today. Thank you. It was a pleasure and I look forward to hosting you in a free Venezuela where you will see, you know, great investment, great prosperity, and also peace and freedom from Venezuela to the rest of the region. Thank you so
[00:58:06] much, David. Thank you. >> [music] >> I'm going all in.