[00:00:00] Maria Corina Machado, welcome to the All-In interview and thank you for being here with me today. And congratulations on winning the Nobel Peace Prize 2 weeks ago. Thank you very much, David. It's my pleasure. Today, you are in hiding. In October of 2023, you won the presidential primary election in Venezuela. Last March, you were disqualified from running in the general election. You appointed ultimately a surrogate
[00:00:29] Edmundo Gonzalez. After the vote for the general election for the presidency, your party presented evidence that claimed that you had won 69 and 1/2% of the votes, while Maduro, through the National Electoral Council, declared that he was the winner with 51% of the votes. This is the recap of a very long story of the Maduro regime and prior to that, the Chavez regime and its effect on the people of Venezuela, which you have tried to bring
[00:00:58] to light on the global stage. I was hoping to frame up the story for our audience who may not know the history of Venezuela very well by talking a little bit about the background of the country and how your childhood and your youth brought you to the stage that you're on today. And just to provide a little bit of background and forgive me for my lengthy introduction, but I think it's important for folks to understand that the
[00:01:22] discovery of oil in Venezuela in 1914 began an economic boom that really kicked off in 1922. Today, Venezuela has proven oil reserves of 300 billion barrels, the number one proven oil reserve in the world. Saudi Arabia is number two at 266 billion and the US is at 48 billion. Over the decades that followed the discovery of oil in Venezuela, there was initially an improvement in the economy through the investment by the seven sisters, which
[00:01:50] are a group of seven oil companies, and ultimately there was a transition in the country to nationalize oil production, and that led to, I think, the story that brings us here today. So, Maria Corina, again, thank you for being here. Maybe you could tell us a little bit about your youth. Well, [clears throat] first of all, I have to thank you because this is a unique, decisive moment in Venezuela. We've been under this tyranny that has
[00:02:14] turned into a real criminal structure for 26 years that have turned, you know, what used to be one of the freest and richest countries in the Americas into one of the poorest and with a third of our population forced to flee. So, imagine what a tragedy. It shows that, you know, you can have huge, unique natural endowments, but if but that's not wealth, you need talent, you need institutions, and you need freedom in
[00:02:46] order to turn that in the well-being of your people. I I was born in an incredible family. I I I thank the Lord because we had a huge family like Latin American family, like to be, you know, together, hanging around all the time. My father was an incredible industrial entrepreneur. He He is perhaps the smartest and most generous and honest individuals I've met in my life. And and he taught us the responsibility that comes with with
[00:03:21] that, with your family values and the opportunity life gives you. And that's why we I only imagine my life in Venezuela and in freedom. And and and we grew with that sense of responsibility. And but to be honest, I'm part of a generation that, you know, looked politics with, you know, rejection or even contempt. I I said I would do anything in my life but politics. And and and and, you know, thought we thought that we had inherited
[00:03:57] democracy forever. We took it for granted. And when Chavez arrived, our lives were, you know, turned over and we realized that we we need to exercise citizenship if we wanted to live with freedom. And that's how it all started. I never thought I would be sitting in here with you talking about politics or democracy. I never thought I would be sitting on a podcast, but uh >> [laughter] >> life takes us down strange paths. What
[00:04:28] were the conditions in the country when Chavez came to power? What sort of life were you living? What were you seeing in the country that enabled Chavez to come to power and what did he promise the people? Look, we had a period of of democracy that that brought Venezuela huge opportunities, you know, that widespread education and health. Unfortunately, uh we stopped short of a a real free economy. But um the state control, not only of
[00:05:05] institutions, but as you mentioned, when the oil companies were, you know, owned, turned into the government, state-sized, and and a terrible incentives started being created and more and more people felt excluded from that, you know, wealth that the society Venezuelan society was getting or country was getting because it was all in hands of the state. So, we've never known but the state control economy. We've never
[00:05:36] always known or never seen anything but that kind of socialist procedures in place. When Chavez arrived, uh we had gone through a political, you know, crisis and and and there were growing tensions and and, you know, claims of corruption in the political system, the party system, and also the price of oil had, you know, declined. It was around $8 a barrel. So, he came with a populist narrative offering, you know, everyone
[00:06:11] to be equal and and to revenge against all those that were guilty of uprooting the the country. And and, you know, he aligned with actors such as Fidel Castro in Cuba and other international interests to grab, you know, those huge resources Venezuela has and of course in a, you know, super strategic geographic position. So, that's how he got there and that populist system turned into a autocratic and then into criminal
[00:06:44] structure. >> And this was 1999 that he came to power? >> was in 1999. >> And at the time, I think when he took office, oil was at around $14 per barrel. And a few years later, oil spiked up to $100 a barrel. >> even less. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. Just to contextualize all of this, prior to his coming to power, the oil companies had been nationalized. And so, to your point, the government was really the economy. And he promised this sort
[00:07:13] of equality and redistribution of value for all of the people of Venezuela. Is that what he promised and the economy was really depressed because of the oil price being down? Yeah, and that he would take, you know, resources from the rich, the companies, and he would distribute in in in poor quarters and and in in in in the most vulnerable parts of the of the society. And at the end, we we learned the hard way that
[00:07:43] effectively this kind of socialist approach does get everyone equal in absolute misery because there's nothing for free in life. I mean, you you give away your choices, your decisions, in supposedly to receive, but actually what you are you are getting is into a slave situation in which the state, you know, decides for you and and only if you behave accordingly, you will get what they had offered. So, that's what we're seeing right now. The
[00:08:18] largest oil reserves in the world, I've been walking around those areas where that oil is actually beneath the ground and you see children eating from garbage. So, >> And I think, to your point, and I was going to bring this up later, but there's such a powerful lesson to be learned for the West, for America, for Europe, socialism is slavery. And I think the story that you bring to the world is one of slavery driven by
[00:08:49] this kind of socialist tyranny. There is no socialism without tyranny. But I just want to walk through that a little bit because as Chavez came to power, oil went up to $100 a barrel. Suddenly, Venezuela's oil reserves made the country very wealthy, and he then engaged in a series of what some people have described to me as petro diplomacy, where he gave away 300,000 barrels of oil per day to the Cubans at a 50% price
[00:09:18] discount in order to make the Cubans a surrogate, in order to make other island nations in the Caribbean, in the African island states, surrogates. And that's how Venezuela expressed their political influence around the world was through the power of the oil reserves, but in such a way that it excluded the people from participation. It seemed to be very centralized to the government. Maybe you could share a little bit about
[00:09:47] how folks in the government, in the military under Chavez, lived these incredible lives with wealth and luxury, while the people were impoverished. Any anecdotes you could share on that? Yeah, sure. Look, this is a this is this is a result that's being you know, tried in Venezuela and elsewhere. You get into power through elections and then from within you start undermining every single democratic institution. You go against the media.
[00:10:16] You control the media. And it's and you can see this pattern in Venezuela. So, how Chavez started, you know, pressing or or buying space and publicity and then buying the whole media outlets and through censorship and and through and changing the laws in order for to be very very risky to speak out. And then it went also with the private sector in every single area of production. And of course it took the military as well. I
[00:10:48] mean, all those that were the most competent individuals they were put aside and only those that were absolutely loyal to the regime were ascended. So, this is you destroy merit merit and and so that anybody realizes that if you want to be part of of the system, if you want to work for the state or for the academy or in the military, it has nothing to do with your competence or knowledge or talent, but you have to be absolutely loyal and and
[00:11:19] bow your head to the regime. And and and this progressively imagine all the resources that were coming in because you you said something very important that some people do not realize. I mean, the the the the barrel of oil was around 10 or eight when Chavez arrived. It went up to 150 dollars a barrel. Imagine the amount of resources. It was all the money in the world that they used effectively to buy loyal and and and to lobby around the
[00:11:49] world and to support ideological groups all over all over the the the western hemisphere So, and and these groups and these let's say these stands and get getting contact with each other. They exchange technology, they exchange information, they support each other in international forms. And that's why you know, they get so powerful in their different areas and and and countries. On the other hand, what we have seen is
[00:12:22] that democracies and democratic movements in our in our side of the world are very isolated. We we don't help each other. We don't support each other as we should. I I think this is one of the great lessons that we we learned in these 20 years. Regarding the the the amount of resources, look, there are estimates that the the the the the the tag that the that Venezuela was robbed is over 2 trillion dollars. Imagine what we're talking about in
[00:12:53] these 26 years. And uh and this was all either went for corruption as I said or for this kind of obscene fortunes these very few individuals have while 86% of our population nowadays lives in in poverty. The pensions in Venezuela are less than $1 a month, David. $1 a month. Yeah. And so you're under Chavez there was also this embracing or tie-up with the drug trade, the FARC ELN in Colombia. What is the alignment?
[00:13:34] What was the reason that the Chavez regime and now the Maduro regime aligns with the drug cartels given the oil wealth given the international diplomatic ties because of the oil trade. Why is there also a drug tie-up and what is the motivation and the incentive and drive there? Well, the the the drug business isn't new. Actually, it started before Chavez arrived and many individuals in the military had had ties to them, but they
[00:14:03] realized it could be even much more the margins are even larger than than in oil and the greed in these individuals in these criminal structures are unlimited. It's infinite. So, they not only went into drugs and drug trafficking, they went into gold smuggling, arm smuggling, even human trafficking. I mean, every single criminal network in the world has has you know, converged into Venezuela that has been turned into
[00:14:34] a safe haven for for the enemies of of of the west and and the enemies of the United States. Imagine, I mean, Caracas is 3 hours away from Miami. So, having you know, a satellite of Russia, of Iran operating in the heart of the Americas it's it's something that you know, these these regimes around the world have always dreamt of. Even terrorist groups such as Hezbollah, Hamas uh to which Chavez and Maduro have
[00:15:06] given thousands of Venezuelans identities and passports to travel around freely around the world. So, under Chavez the GDP declined 70%. There was mass starvation, highest crime rates in the world, 90% poverty rate. Much of the stories and and anecdotes have been reported publicly by international organizations. You are 32 years old when Chavez comes to power. Three years later you start a civil organization called uh
[00:15:41] Sumate. What were you doing when Chavez came to power professionally? And what motivated you to get involved in the civic engagement that carried you forward to today? Well, I had been working in in the private uh auto parts and steel industry following my father's steps. And and also I was involved in a in a an NGO that took over a children shelter for abandoned and abused children and and and you know, I I as I say, I had never thought I
[00:16:13] would get involved into politics, but once this you know, this individual arrives and it's evident for us that he was promoting the division of our country to create tensions, to to divide even families, even my own family. Uh the the degree of of hatred, of violence in in his speech, the way he he wanted to um to create tensions among religions, races. It it you realize that that was going to turn part of our country and a group of
[00:16:47] friends, all engineers, decided that we will work to to gather petitions for a recall referendum. We thought it was going to be like a super easy task to get, you know, 6 million petitions in a few weeks. And and and you know, we we learned the hard way it was it would require a totally new uh kind of citizen organization and that's how Sumate, which means join up, uh finally was managed to gather the the petitions in just one day. People
[00:17:24] millions of people came out and signed these petitions. It's a long story. Chavez eventually uh committed fraud in in the referendum and and stayed in power and and got even more and more autocratic as the years passed by. So, were you doing Sumate full-time? Did that become your life's work at that point? And then how did you make the decision to run for the National Assembly? Which was in 2011. Fast forward nine
[00:17:52] years after founding Sumate. >> Yeah. Sumate was like an awakening for me and for many Venezuelans. We we realized that we could not rely our citizenship in political parties and that you cannot be complaining about politics if you're not willing to do your own part. And that's why you know, it came a day when I said, "Look, you know, I I I know how politics are doing, how it works. I don't like it. So, I cannot complain if I'm not
[00:18:22] willing to take my own steps. So, I I took this fellowship to to to a program in leadership at Yale University. And and it you know, it was like seeing my life from above and I made that huge decision that I was going you know, go for it. I was I was going to run for Congress. I had no political party. I had no experience. You know, everything was against me. Everybody told me you are crazy. You are never going to win. You
[00:18:54] are never going to get support. Nobody's going to support someone, you know, whose family has resources, who's a woman. You are divorced. You are not a socialist. I mean, I had every single condition to fail. >> [laughter] >> And uh I I I decided, you know, I I felt it was my responsibility. I could not, you know, get afraid of and and I trust my own, you know, feeling. And it was impressive. You know, volunteers started
[00:19:33] you know, contacting me and in a matter of months with no money whatsoever, no organization, no media, nothing. Uh I won I won the primaries and then I for the for the National uh Assembly. And that was in 2000 uh, 10 and and then I won the the election with the highest number of votes in in Venezuelan Congress history. Amazing. How much of a role did the internet play? I worked at Google a long time ago and we always had this
[00:20:09] conversation that the internet is going to create a democratization of information that you no longer had centralized control of information through media and in the case of Venezuela that is effectively controlled by a government that wants to stay in power. Did the internet play a role in giving you the ability to reach people around the country in 2010 to be able to get elected? Absolutely. And not only that,
[00:20:37] in 2010, I wouldn't have won if it wasn't through the internet. >> Right. I mean, no media outlet would dare to interview me. And it was a way in which we could organize because we had no resources. But further ahead let me tell you, I know how there are so many concerns about the use of technology by by the by bad guys and and and by by the regimes that are autocratic and Venezuela is, you know, what? A textbook case of how you get