[00:32:56] people like us always are looking for expenses and deductions and people that uh buy automobiles that really have to go out and borrow money to buy a car, why aren't they allowed to deduct the interest on their loan to buy a car from their income tax? And we got it approved. We got it approved. And that is such a big thing. And I think that's going to be such a big thing for the automobile industry. We're going to be
[00:33:21] making more cars within a few years. We're going to be making more cars than we made in the very beginning in the super prime. You know, we lost almost 50% of our automobile business to Mexico, Canada, and various other places as you know, in Europe and in Asia. And now we're getting it back. We're getting it back in record numbers. And I think we're going to be topping any amount in a few years. will be making more automobiles than we've ever made in the history of our country, including what I
[00:33:50] call prime time. My administration is also pursuing a future of allout American energy dominance. And on day one, I terminated the Green New Scam. You know what that was? You were all victims to it. Perhaps the second or third greatest scam in the history of our country. I would say the first was Russia, Russia, Russia. And we had a couple of others, too. But the Green New scam was one of the greatest. Uh it's it's so ridiculous what they've what
[00:34:20] they've made you do. The carbon footprint. They talked about the carbon footprint. And then Obama hops onto a 747 Air Force One and flies to Hawaii to play a round of golf and comes back. What about the carbon footprint? No, we didn't uh we didn't like that. And what Biden has done is uh is absolutely terrible. He made it impossible, almost impossible for people to do business. Not even talking about the border where
[00:34:45] millions and millions of people flowed into our country. Many from prisons, from jails, from gangs, from mental institutions all over the world. No, we're not doing that. We have to get them out. We got 11,888 murderers. Many of them committed more than one murder. Many of them, more than 50% committed more murders. We're getting them out of our country. door. In some cases, they're so bad, we're not getting them out. We're having to lock
[00:35:11] them up because we don't want them ever to come back, no matter how good we're doing. You know, last month, you probably read, we had zero people enter our country illegally. And over the last number of years, you'd have hundreds of thousands, literally hundreds of thousands of people a week pour into our country, totally unvetted and unchecked. And uh what the hell were they thinking? What they've done to our country is so sad and we can never forget it. But
[00:35:42] we're unleashing all forms of energy including natural gas, oil, and clean, beautiful coal. I instructed my people in the form of Chris and Doug in particular. You are not allowed to say the word coal without saying clean, beautiful in front of it. You can only say clean, beautiful coal. It's a little embarrassing because we had somebody making a speech the other day, right? And he mentioned the word coal about 30
[00:36:06] times because that was the subject and he kept going clean, beautiful. I wanted to say, "Okay, just take it easy. You could just got a little bit crazy, right, Doug?" But uh it's uh you know, China's using it. They're building now 57 big power plants all fueled by coal. And uh we have to compete. We have to win. And we're going to have clean, beautiful coal. But we have more coal than any we have more anything in terms of energy than anybody, oil and gas. We also have more coal. In May, I also
[00:36:36] signed an executive order to rapidly begin construction of safe, reliable nuclear reactors. That's a big thing now. And many of you will many of you are going to be using nuclear. You know, I had uh problems with nuclear. I saw some of the things, but what they've done with nuclear is like what you've done with AI and other things. It's incredible actually. It's uh long-term. It's inexpensive. It's in It's just It's safe. What they've done is really
[00:37:09] amazing. So, we opened up the industry. Very strict rules, but we opened up the industry. And some of you are going to choose nuclear over oil and gas or whatever it might be. Under the last year of Biden, China added 11 times as much power generation capacity as did the United States. Can you imagine that? 11 times. Under the Trump administration, we will be saying those very famous campaign words, drill, baby, drill, and build, baby, build, and we will be adding at least as much electric
[00:37:40] capacity as China. We think we're going to catch them and maybe even uh have something a little bit extra. They're going very rapidly, but so are we. And we'll be doing at least as much. And every company will be given the right to build their own power plant. So when you build, you can build your power plant with it and you are essentially going to become your own utility. It's a utility to yourselves. And as I said, any excess
[00:38:06] energy you're going to sell back to the grid and make plenty of money doing it as a result of these pro-American policies. Since my election, we're seeing trillions and trillions of dollars in new investments. So at this moment, we have almost 17 trillion dollars coming into this country. There's never been a period of time like that. And that's in a period of a few months. In a few months, Meta, Amazon, Google, Microsoft are all investing $320 billion
[00:38:37] dollars or more in data centers and AI infrastructure this year. Those companies are really uh they're really going at it and they're it's very smart people, very good people. I got to know a lot of them. You know, I didn't like them so much the first term when I was running. I I wouldn't say I was thrilled with them, but I've gotten to know them and like them, and I think they got to like me, but I think they got to like my policies maybe much more than me. Nvidia
[00:39:03] has committed $500 billion over the next four years. Thank you, Jensen. I'm sure that'll be a good investment. If you're doing it, it's good. Thank you very much. It's a great It's a great statement. Last week I was in Pennsylvania's 20 companies announced $92 billion with David McCormack, Senator, great guy from Pennsylvania. $92 billion in energy and data center projects, including what will soon be the largest natural gas power plant anywhere in North America. They're going to town. It's already under
[00:39:36] construction. Largest in North America by far. For decades, we had leaders who spent their time focused on building up foreign nations. Under the Trump administration, we are going to have leaders who are going to build up our nation. This colossal investment in AI infrastructure and many other industries for that matter such as automobiles and so many other things will also create thousands and thousands of great paying jobs. the kind of jobs we want, including lots of blue collar jobs. And
[00:40:09] you know, our numbers are very good right now, but will you see these numbers in two years from now? It will mean higher wages and more opportunity for millions of energy workers, HVAC technicians, engineers, electricians, and the hardworking citizens who make our country run. These are great people that make our country actually run. To ensure America maintains the worldclass infrastructure we need to win, today I will sign a sweeping executive order to fasttrack federal permitting, streamline
[00:40:39] reviews, and do everything possible to expedite construction of all major AI infrastructure projects. And this will be done uh you will get so good a service in so many ways, not only from Lee with the environment, but you need many other types of permits. and you're going to go so fast you're going to say well wait a minute this is too fast I didn't expect to go this quickly this is a problem I may cause a problem in opposite but including factories data centers and power plants of all kinds
[00:41:08] the United States will have total industrial and technological supremacy the second pillar of our action plan for AI dominance is to get the entire world running on the backbone of American technology and I think that's very much happening right now and I think it's going to happen. The last administration was obsessed with imposing restrictions on AI, including extreme restrictions on its exports. As you know, they made it very difficult to export. This alienated
[00:41:38] American partners and drove even our friends into the arms of China and other countries. That's why upon taking office, I repealed the so-called Biden diffusion rule. Can you imagine that? that crippled American AI exports. The Biden diffusion rule. I wonder who came up with that name because he does has no idea what it is. He had no idea what it was. He came up with a rule. I wonder who drew that one. I wonder was that signed by the autopen. I think because they went to him and said, "We're going
[00:42:09] to do a diffusion rule, Mr. President." What? What? It's okay. The autopen will take care of it. It's one of the greatest scandals in the history of our country. Let me tell you, under my administration, we will maintain necessary protections for our national security, but we will never forget that the greatest threat of all is to forfeit the race and force our partners into rival technology. We're not going to do that. We're not going to do that.
[00:42:41] Not going to let that happen. That could be the end. When I traveled to the Middle East in May, every leader I met was thrilled to do business with American tech firms and with America. And they were all thrilled to meet me, believe it or not. It's hard to believe, isn't it? But they were. By the way, most powerful woman in the world is here today. Susie Wild, stand up, please. Susie Wild, chief of staff. She can take out a country with a mere phone call. No, they just voted her the
[00:43:13] most powerful woman anywhere in the world. She might be the most powerful person in the world, I think. But she's done a fant. Hasn't she done a good job, though? Huh? Good. But, uh, we're going to come home with trillions and trillions of dollars in deals and that's the way it is. But the king of Saudi Arabia, I met three great leaders. I went to three countries predominantly. King of Saudi Arabia said
[00:43:39] and I can say that Qatar and UAE the leaders brilliant guys great people they said the same thing. They said you know what that one year ago your country was dead. It was a dead country. They were looking at China. They were looking at other places but you had a dead country. And today Mr. President you have the hottest country anywhere in the world. They said that and they meant it so strongly. And when I went to NATO two weeks ago where we made the deal where they pay 5% instead of 2%, they uh said the same
[00:44:14] exact thing. They said, "Boy, I tell you what a difference it is. It's a year ago you you people were dead. We didn't think you were going to make it as a country. Today you're the hottest country in the world." They all said it. All those leaders said 30 of them. So today, I'm signing another major executive order that will turn America into an AI export powerhouse. Under this order, Secretary Lutnik and Secretary Marco Rubio, Marco Rubio's
[00:44:46] doing a great job as Secretary of State, will work to rapidly expand American AI exports of all kinds, from chips to software to data storage of all kinds. And that's very important. That's going to give you the freedom to do what you want to do. And third, once and for all, we are getting rid of woke. Is that okay? Because I know you had to hire under you had to hire all woke people. I heard you had to hire all woke people under some of these things. How about the chips where they give you the chip
[00:45:15] the chip nonsense where they give you billions of dollars if you only build a chip company? These people have plenty of money. They don't need the money. They need the permits. They need the rights to do it. They need the They don't want to pay tariffs. So they come and they build here. That's why they're coming here. They like number one, they like me, but they like but they like not having to pay tariffs even more. And they're coming. But Biden gave billions of dollars to companies that have
[00:45:40] nothing but cash. And they don't say where to build. It's just give them money. But here's the problem. They have to hire lots of woke people. And they say woke isn't for this particular industry. We've noticed that they're not for a lot of industries. if you want to know the truth. So, the guidelines were impossible. They're going to give you money, but you got to hire this and this and this and that.
[00:46:03] And uh I don't want to get into it too much because I don't want any controversy today, but you have to hire a lot of people that were not into this particular world that you're in. And so therefore, all the money they gave didn't mean a damn thing. One of Biden's worst executive orders established toxic diversity, equity, and inclusion ideology as a guiding principle of American AI development. So, you
[00:46:28] immediately knew that was the end of your development. But the American people do not want woke Marxist lunacy in the AI models, and neither do other countries. They don't want it. They don't want anything to do with it. That's why on day one I very proudly terminated Joe Biden's order on woke AI effective immediately. You don't have any of those crazy rules. Crazy rule. And in just a moment, I will be signing an order banning the federal government from procuring AI technology that has
[00:47:00] been infused with partisan bias or ideological agendas such as critical race theory, which is ridiculous. And from now on, the US government will deal only with AI that pursues truth, fairness, and strict impartiality. We're not going to go through the craziness that we've gone through for the last four years. And then we skip four and then you go back and it started then, but it hung around a little while. Now it's not hanging around at all. Now it's actually very uncool. As somebody told
[00:47:30] me the other day, it's so uncool to be woke. I encourage all American companies to join us in rejecting poisonous Marxism in our technology. It'll be very interesting to see what's happening in New York because they're actually thinking about electing a communist in New York. They like to call him a socialist. He's not a socialist. He's a communist. But don't worry, you're going to be okay. Still has to get his money
[00:47:52] from the White House and that's not going to happen until he shapes up. But as an example, we are not going to allow men to play in women's sports. That's just an example. That's one. And they say that's that's an 8020 number. They say 80% would be against it. No, it's not 8020. It's about 973. And I don't know who the three are. I've never seen anybody I've never had a person I've see everybody. I'm a very open person. They come up to me and they
[00:48:28] talk to me. I've never had anybody come up, sir, you have to let men play in women's sports. I've never had it. I deal with hundreds of thousands of people. Every time I talk to somebody, nobody's ever They talk about AI. They talk about everything, but they've never said, "You got to allow This is ridiculous. Men should be allowed to play in women's sports." It's uh it's sort of crazy, isn't it? Huh? You have to see. Did you see the
[00:48:53] race? It was a race, a long distance marathon. one of those all day deals. And we had one of the great female runners and we had one of the great male runners. And at the end of the day, he won the race by 5 hours and 14 seconds. They waited around for the really good athlete, female. It's very demeaning to women. I want to tell you that. But they waited. Her parents were waiting for hours. Somebody said, "Why don't you go back to the hotel and sleep for a few hours and come back and meet your
[00:49:22] daughter?" This is what they do. You got to see the weightlifting records. Are they the best of all? Woman lifted 212 pounds. It was a world record. It held for 18 years. And now a man who transitioned came up and looked at the bar. How much is it? 212 lbs. Oh, let me try it. Bing bong. I think he broke the record by 109bs. It's going to be a long time. It's going to be a long time before a woman catches
[00:49:53] that. And these are great athletes and great people and it's demeaning. And who the hell wants this? We we're off of that whole standard because I just tell you those as examples were off of it. The reason the last administration was so eager to regulate and restrict AI was so they could limit this technology to just a few large companies, allowing them to centralize it, censor it, control it, weaponize it, and they would
[00:50:19] weaponize a very dishonest group of people. You probably saw that because we caught them in the act. We really caught them. We had them before, but now we really have them. We have it where it counts. But this is the exact opposite of my approach. The unique strength of the American tech industry has always come from its startups and small tech. It comes through small. Jensen was small. Will you have a small? I think so. When you started in your bedroom, I