[00:47:52] from the White House and that's not going to happen until he shapes up. But as an example, we are not going to allow men to play in women's sports. That's just an example. That's one. And they say that's that's an 8020 number. They say 80% would be against it. No, it's not 8020. It's about 973. And I don't know who the three are. I've never seen anybody I've never had a person I've see everybody. I'm a very open person. They come up to me and they
[00:48:28] talk to me. I've never had anybody come up, sir, you have to let men play in women's sports. I've never had it. I deal with hundreds of thousands of people. Every time I talk to somebody, nobody's ever They talk about AI. They talk about everything, but they've never said, "You got to allow This is ridiculous. Men should be allowed to play in women's sports." It's uh it's sort of crazy, isn't it? Huh? You have to see. Did you see the
[00:48:53] race? It was a race, a long distance marathon. one of those all day deals. And we had one of the great female runners and we had one of the great male runners. And at the end of the day, he won the race by 5 hours and 14 seconds. They waited around for the really good athlete, female. It's very demeaning to women. I want to tell you that. But they waited. Her parents were waiting for hours. Somebody said, "Why don't you go back to the hotel and sleep for a few hours and come back and meet your
[00:49:22] daughter?" This is what they do. You got to see the weightlifting records. Are they the best of all? Woman lifted 212 pounds. It was a world record. It held for 18 years. And now a man who transitioned came up and looked at the bar. How much is it? 212 lbs. Oh, let me try it. Bing bong. I think he broke the record by 109bs. It's going to be a long time. It's going to be a long time before a woman catches
[00:49:53] that. And these are great athletes and great people and it's demeaning. And who the hell wants this? We we're off of that whole standard because I just tell you those as examples were off of it. The reason the last administration was so eager to regulate and restrict AI was so they could limit this technology to just a few large companies, allowing them to centralize it, censor it, control it, weaponize it, and they would
[00:50:19] weaponize a very dishonest group of people. You probably saw that because we caught them in the act. We really caught them. We had them before, but now we really have them. We have it where it counts. But this is the exact opposite of my approach. The unique strength of the American tech industry has always come from its startups and small tech. It comes through small. Jensen was small. Will you have a small? I think so. When you started in your bedroom, I
[00:50:44] think you were small, right? He started as very small and now he's really become very amazing. If you regulate them too much, you kill the source of American genius and technological power. I believe that Joe Biden had a plan to lose the AI race. I think he wanted to lose it cuz his plan would never have worked. It would have never been successful and you would have spent a lot of money and you wouldn't have been able to win. They didn't allow you to win. But we have a plan which only
[00:51:14] admires and respects the winners. Every citizen should take incredible pride in the inspiring feats of American innovators who are pushing the bounds of human knowledge and achievement. The people of Open AI, Google, Meta, and countless startups are proving once again that America is impossible. You are just impossible to beat. You're not going to be beaten. We're not going to let that happen when you do your best, when you work your hardest, and when
[00:51:45] you're allowed to be free of horrible, foolish regulation. And you're going to have regulation, but it's going to be sensible, smart regulation. There's nobody who's going to beat you. As we push even further into this exciting frontier, let us never forget that all of this prosperity and progress has come from the culture of freedom and hard work, merit, ambition, and risktaking passed down from one generation of Americans to the next. Silicon Valley
[00:52:14] rose to wealth, fame, and glory by exemplifying these values. And it will win this race not by rejecting them, but by embracing them like they have never been embraced before. We must put America first. This is a nation that invented the light bulb, the telegraph, the television, the telephone, the computer chip, the smartphone, the GPS, the integrated circuit, and even the internet. Basically, we invented
[00:52:44] everything. What is left? We invented everything and now it's AI. We invented everything. Wait, does anyone have anything else to say? And now we're going to take it to a new level. But Americans were the first to fly a plane, first to harness the atom, and first to plant our flag on the moon. We mastered the industrial age. We created the digital age, and now we are leading the world into the golden age.
[00:53:15] Indeed, the golden age of America. With your help, that golden age will be built by American workers. It will be powered by American energy. It will be run on American technology, improved by American artificial intelligence. And it will make America richer, stronger, greater, freer, and more powerful than ever before. And I will now do my share by going and signing a name without an auto pen. I will sign it If we had one, I wouldn't use it anyway,
[00:53:48] but we will sign it auto pen free and we will say Donald J. Trump, God bless America, and God bless you and good luck because the race has just begun and you're going to win it. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. No text Yes, sir. Mr. President, Mr. President, the first a uh the first executive order that we've prepared for your signature uh today relates to uh federal permitting for data center infrastructure. As you mentioned during your speech, this is a crucial issue
[00:54:35] affecting the entire AI industry. What this executive order will do is establish fasttrack permitting um and ensure that the federal government is working to get data centers uh approved and through the permitting pipeline as quickly as possible. Okay, as you said before, sir, it's absolutely essential uh that American AI models and American the American AI industry uh dominates the future of this industry around the world. What this next executive order will do uh is is promote
[00:55:31] uh through various instrumentalities of the federal government uh the export abroad of American AI models to ensure American AI dominance in the future. Great. Okay. And lastly, sir, as you said in your speech, we don't want woke AI. We want AI models based on accurate information that give accurate information and accurate answers. This executive order will ensure that when the federal government uh procures or promotes different AI models uh that those AI models are uh ideologically neutral that
[00:56:25] they don't embrace wokeism and critical race theory and all of these terrible theories that have done so much damage to our country. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Good luck. Good luck. Thank you.