[00:17:01] really doing a good job and small business which is actually big business if you add it all up, right? It's probably the biggest bank there is and but they call it small business and she's done a fantastic job. Thanks, Kell. Say hello to Jeff. As we gather this afternoon, we're still in the earliest days of one of the most important technological revolutions in the history of the world. Around the globe, everyone is talking about artificial intelligence. I find that too artificial. I'm I can't stand it. I
[00:17:31] don't even like the name, you know. I don't like anything that's artificial. So, could we straighten that out, please? We should change the name. I actually mean that. I don't like the name artificial anything because it's not artificial. It's genius. It's pure genius and its potential to transform every type of human endeavor and domain of human knowledge from medicine to manufacturing to warfare and national defense. Whether we like it or not,
[00:17:58] we're suddenly engaged in a fast-paced competition to build and define this groundbreaking technology that will determine so much about the future of civilization itself because of the genius and creativity of Silicon Valley. And it is incredible, incredible genius. Without question, the most brilliant place anywhere on earth. America is the country that started the AI race. And as president of the United States, I'm here today to declare that
[00:18:32] America is going to win it. Going to work hard. We're going to win it because we will not allow any foreign nation to beat us. Our children will not live on a planet controlled by the algorithms of the adversaries advancing values and interests contrary to our own. We don't want to have contrary interests. We want to get along and we'll get along with other countries. We're having a great relationship, as I told you, with those countries that we
[00:19:05] mentioned with Japan and Indonesia and so many others. The uh European Union, we're getting along. We're getting along very well with China. a lot of respect for President Xi. We have a great relationship and we'll see how it all works out. But we're getting along with uh countries very it's really been pretty amazing. I will say that and it's a good thing. It's a good thing, not a bad thing. So from this day forward, it'll be a policy of the United States
[00:19:33] to do whatever it takes to lead the world in artificial intelligence. Such an important thing happening. This is really something that nobody expected. It just popped out of the popped out of the air and here we are. But we will defend our nation, our values, our future, and our freedom. And it will be really great. But we what we really need to be successful is a very simple phrase called common sense. And that begins with a common sense application of artificial and intellectual property
[00:20:08] rules. It's so important. You can't be expected to have a successful AI program when every single article, book, or anything else that you've read or studied, you're supposed to pay for. Gee, I read a book. I'm supposed to pay somebody. And you know, we we appreciate that, but you just can't do it because it's not doable. And if you're going to try and do that, you're not going to have a successful program. I think most
[00:20:31] of the people in the room know what I mean. When a person reads a book or an article, you've gained great knowledge. That does not mean that you're violating copyright laws or have to make deals with every content provider. And uh that's a big thing that you're working on right now. I know. But you just can't do it. China's not doing it. And if you're going to be beating China and right now we're leading China very substantially in AI, very very
[00:20:57] substantially. And nobody's seen the the amount of work that's going to be bursting upon the scene. But you have to be able to play by the same set of rules. So when you have something when you read something and when it goes into this vast intelligence uh machine we'll call it uh you cannot expect to every time every single time say oh let's pay this one that much let's pay this one. Just doesn't work that way. Of course, you can't copy or plagiarize an article,
[00:21:30] but if you read an article and learn from it, we have to allow AI to use that pool of knowledge without going through the complexity of contract negotiations, of which there would be thousands for every time we use AI. We also have to have a single federal standard, not 50 different states regulating this industry of the future. And some people would say, gee, that's an unpopular thing to say. I was told before I got up here, this is an unpopular thing because some people, they don't want that. But I
[00:22:03] want you to be successful. And you can't have one state holding you up. You can't have three or four states holding you up. You can't have a state with standards that are so high that it's going to hold you up. You have to have a federal rule and regulation. And hopefully you'll have the right guy in this position that's going to that's going to supplant the states. If you are operating under 50 different sets of state laws, the most restrictive
[00:22:31] state of all will be the one that rules. So you could have a state run by a crazy governor, a governor that hates you, a governor that's not smart, or maybe a governor that's very smart, but decides that he doesn't like the industry and he can put you out of business because you're going to have to go to that lowest common denominator. We need one common sense federal standard that supersedes all states, supersedes everybody so you don't end up in litigation with 43 states at one time.
[00:23:05] You got to go litigation free. That's the only way. And we also have to watch Europe, Asia, and all foreign countries so that they don't make rules and regulations that likewise make it impossible for you to do business and where you'd have to make everything in AI cater to them because again, you'd have to cater to the toughest country or to the toughest state. You can't do that because it would ruin it. I just terminated all of the, as an example,
[00:23:33] California car emissions rules, which were a disaster. A disaster cost them million. It cost them just billions of dollars as an industry, but thousands of dollars per car. The emission rule standard because they were making the production of an automobile almost impossible and at a tremendously higher cost, much more expensive than it should cost for very little gain for actually in my opinion negative gain. The automobile was worse under this
[00:24:04] administration. Our innovation will be unmatched and our capabilities will be unrivaled. And with the help of many of the people in this room, America's ultimate triumph will be absolutely unstoppable. We will be unstoppable as a nation. Again, we're way ahead and we want to stay that way. We can't let individual smaller units stop it because that's the only thing that can stop it and can really mess it up. As with any
[00:24:31] such breakthrough, this technology brings the potential for bad as well as for good, for peril as well as for progress. But the daunting power of AI is the really it's uh not going to be a reason for retreat from this new frontier. On the contrary, it is the more reason we must ensure it is pioneered first and best. We have to have the best the first pioneer. We are the best and the first pioneers and we're going to be really putting a
[00:25:04] nation that we love, America. We're going to be putting it first. I have an expression, America first. Make America great again. A lot of great expressions, but they're all so true. We're going to make America great again. We're going to make this industry absolutely the top because right now it's it's a beautiful baby that's born. We have to grow that baby and let that baby thrive. We can't stop it. We can't stop it with politics. We can't stop it with foolish rules and
[00:25:34] even stupid rules. At the same time, we want to have rules. But they have to be smart. They have to be brilliant. They have to be more brilliant than even the technology itself. Surely there will be challenges on the path ahead. But together, we will meet them and transcend them all. We are Americans and we are Americans first. A couple of people I know that don't happen to be from here, but I wish you a lot of luck.
[00:25:58] Anyway, I was looking at three people that are not Americans, but they're very good people. Ple, please treat them nicely. But we do not shrink from the future or cower in the face of uncertainty. We dominate the future. We conquer new frontiers and we control our own fate. And we determine by doing that our own destiny. Winning this competition will be a test of our capacities unlike anything since the dawn of the space
[00:26:26] age. I believe that it's hard to believe as a uh as the president the amount of enthusiasm for this one industry. I mean I can talk about cars where we're doing incredibly well. We have car companies moving in all the time. But I talk about other industries is everybody's saying this is going to dominate the world, going to dominate every industry that ever conceived. I don't know if that's true. I don't know if it's true, but I can tell you that a lot of very
[00:26:56] brilliant people think it is true. It'll dominate everything. It will challenge us to marshall all of our strength and flex the muscles of American ingenuity and resolve like probably never before. It will require us to blast through obsolete systems, cut through thicket of regulation. We got to get rid of some of the regulation, but we want good regulation and rebuild the industrial bedrock of our country. And perhaps most importantly, winning the AI race will
[00:27:26] demand a new spirit of patriotism and national loyalty in Silicon Valley and long beyond Silicon Valley. For too long, much of our tech industry pursued a radical globalism that left millions of Americans feeling distrustful and betrayed. And you know that. Everybody knows that. Everybody in this room certainly does. Many of our largest tech companies have reaped the blessings of American freedom while
[00:28:01] building their factories in China, hiring workers in India, and slashing profits in Ireland. You know that. All the while dismissing and even censoring their fellow citizens right here at home. Under President Trump, those days are over. We need US technology companies to be allin for America. We want you to put America first. You have to do that. That's all we ask. That's all we ask to partner with our tech geniuses and achieving this vision. Today, we're releasing the White House AI action
[00:28:37] plan. Big stuff. Signing it right after this. In fact, I see it sitting right there. Maybe I should just sign it right now. Who the hell has to make the rest of this speech, right? But here are the pillars of the strategy. First, my administration will use every tool at our disposal to ensure that the United States can build and maintain the largest, most powerful, and most advanced AI infrastructure anywhere
[00:29:03] on the planet. America needs new data centers, new semiconductor and chip manufacturing facilities, new power plants and transmission lines, and under my leadership, we're going to get that job done. and it's going to be done with certainty and with environmental protection and all of the things that we have to do to get it done properly. Virtually all of these large capital investments can be and should be made by the private sector and they want to do that. They just want to be able to do
[00:29:34] it. But for that reason, America must once again be a country where innovators are rewarded with a green light, not strangled with red tape so they can't move, so they can't breathe. And that's not going to happen. And you're going to see things that you've never seen in this country before so often. And I've been watching for many years. I've watched regulation. I've been a victim of regulation. A zone change that takes six years for a building in Manhattan or
[00:29:59] whatever. But I was good at zone changes. But it took a long time. By the time you got to zoning, the market changed. You didn't want to build the building. You say, "Well, but in some cases, that made you lucky, didn't it?" Huh? In some not too many people understand that in this room but in some cases waiting for that approval as the market collapsed was a good thing not a bad thing but it's time to reclaim our heritage as a nation of builders and
[00:30:24] that's why upon taking office I signed a historic executive order directing that every one and this is so important for every new regulation 10 old regulations must be immediately eliminated. So, we have old regulations that clog up the books that don't even mean anything anymore. You know, in my first term, uh, I had more regulation cuts than any president in history times four. And that included two-term
[00:30:56] presidents where you're talking about eight years. We had more than any other president. And I think we may even top it this year. we may very well be able to top it during this period of time because you're really uh you are a regulationprone group and we're looking to get those regulations out of your way so you can use your genius. Earlier this month, we also enacted the largest tax cuts in American history when I signed
[00:31:22] the one big beautiful bill into law. And I I think the most important thing in the whole tax cut in terms of pure economics and I think one of the reasons that my first you know we had the most successful economy in history during my first term and I think this is going to blow it away. So far it is and I think this is going to blow it away. But the reason we had was I had expensing at 100%. And what we did is we included 100% in
[00:31:56] this bill expensing for all capital expenditures including investments in factories and equipment and structure. Structure wasn't included last time. So even structure and you're able to write it all off immediately. That's the biggest thing. Not 38 years, not 42 years, you're able to write it all off immediately. And this time we've made it for 10 years, not for one year. We've made it for 10 years. So you have a much longer period. But I'd say get out and
[00:32:23] take advantage of it. I think that's one of the reasons that we had such an incredible uh success with the first tax cuts. And one of the things that this bill does is it extends the first tax cuts and uh makes them permanent. And in addition to that, we were granted other taxes like no tax on tips, no tax on social security, no tax on overtime. Uh a lot of great things. One of the things that I mentioned, not so pertinent here, but if you're in the automobile business, it's pertinent. I said, why is it that
[00:32:56] people like us always are looking for expenses and deductions and people that uh buy automobiles that really have to go out and borrow money to buy a car, why aren't they allowed to deduct the interest on their loan to buy a car from their income tax? And we got it approved. We got it approved. And that is such a big thing. And I think that's going to be such a big thing for the automobile industry. We're going to be
[00:33:21] making more cars within a few years. We're going to be making more cars than we made in the very beginning in the super prime. You know, we lost almost 50% of our automobile business to Mexico, Canada, and various other places as you know, in Europe and in Asia. And now we're getting it back. We're getting it back in record numbers. And I think we're going to be topping any amount in a few years. will be making more automobiles than we've ever made in the history of our country, including what I
[00:33:50] call prime time. My administration is also pursuing a future of allout American energy dominance. And on day one, I terminated the Green New Scam. You know what that was? You were all victims to it. Perhaps the second or third greatest scam in the history of our country. I would say the first was Russia, Russia, Russia. And we had a couple of others, too. But the Green New scam was one of the greatest. Uh it's it's so ridiculous what they've what
[00:34:20] they've made you do. The carbon footprint. They talked about the carbon footprint. And then Obama hops onto a 747 Air Force One and flies to Hawaii to play a round of golf and comes back. What about the carbon footprint? No, we didn't uh we didn't like that. And what Biden has done is uh is absolutely terrible. He made it impossible, almost impossible for people to do business. Not even talking about the border where
[00:34:45] millions and millions of people flowed into our country. Many from prisons, from jails, from gangs, from mental institutions all over the world. No, we're not doing that. We have to get them out. We got 11,888 murderers. Many of them committed more than one murder. Many of them, more than 50% committed more murders. We're getting them out of our country. door. In some cases, they're so bad, we're not getting them out. We're having to lock
[00:35:11] them up because we don't want them ever to come back, no matter how good we're doing. You know, last month, you probably read, we had zero people enter our country illegally. And over the last number of years, you'd have hundreds of thousands, literally hundreds of thousands of people a week pour into our country, totally unvetted and unchecked. And uh what the hell were they thinking? What they've done to our country is so sad and we can never forget it. But