[00:00:00] No text Ladies and gentlemen, the 45th and 47th president of the United States, Donald J. Trump. And I'm proud to be an American where at least stand over and free. And I won't forget the men who died, who gave that life to me. And I gladly stand up next to you. And it hurts still today. Cuz there ain't no doubt I love this land. God bless the USA. Thank you very much everybody. What a great song that is. But we'll
[00:00:47] we'll cut it a little short because we have some business to discuss. And what a group of smart ones we have in front of me today. That's about as good as the comes up here. The brain power. The greatest power of them all. The brain power. Well, I'm thrilled to be here with so many tech leaders and luminaries as we take historic action to reassert the future which belongs to America, always has belonged to America. We just lost sight of it on occasion.
[00:01:20] And I just want to start by stating that we've just concluded our big trade deal with Japan and numerous other countries. In addition, as you know, but on the Japan deal, because it was literally just signed, letter was just signed, it gives us a sort of signing bonus or bring it into sports talk. A signing bonus like you have signing bonuses, too. I understand getting a lot of money. 100 million. That's not bad.
[00:01:53] But that's not as good as the signing bonus we got. We got a $550 billion signing bonus for the country. We had the tariff at 25%, as you know, we had a tariff at 25%. And this was uh these are great people that we negotiated with. But we agreed to reduce it to 15 based on the fact that Japan has agreed for the first time ever to open up its country to trade so that all of our American businesses and business geniuses, including many in this room, can go out and do business
[00:02:33] openly and freely in Japan, a very rich and prosperous and profitable and wonderful country. frankly and we will pay a zero tariff as we do business in Japan. So we're paying zero, they're paying 15, we're getting 550 billion dollars and to be exact, it's 90% of that, but we control the whole lot of it. And uh it's really been great and they're very happy. And their stock market went up and our stock market went up and that's supposed to be the way it
[00:03:04] is. Ours went way up and theirs went up. and we've made numerous other deals like that. Uh but the opening up of a country is very important to us. We have numerous countries that uh have opened their doors. Uh just made some incredible uh transactions, but we're going to have a very very simple tariff for some of the countries have so many countries you can't negotiate deals with everyone. So have a straight simple tariff of anywhere between 15 and 50%, a
[00:03:40] couple of we have 15 because we haven't been getting along with those countries too well. So we just say let's pay 50 and uh that's the way it is. But you remember we get countries that were closed, always closed. Everyone in this room would never remember any of them to be open. We we've offered such a deal to the European Union where we're in serious negotiations and if they agree to open up the union to American businesses then we will let them pay a
[00:04:11] lower tariff. So the tariff is uh very important but the opening of a country I think can be more important if our businesses do the job that they're supposed to be doing. Such openings are worthy of many points in tariffs and they're a good thing not only for as an example Japan or Europe but certainly a great thing for America because it allows our businesses to go out and fairly compete and do really well if they compete properly like the people
[00:04:41] that I know. Everyone in this room practically I know has competed very successfully. I haven't seen any. And I know the I know the losers just like I know the winners. I tell you I don't see any of the losers here. But now if some of the countries that pay 25% or more on autos complain, remember that Japan was willing to pay upfront the $550 billion for that privilege of negotiating with the United States of America. We also made a deal
[00:05:12] yesterday with the Philippines and Indonesia which in both cases will be opening up their country and we're in the process of completing our deal with China and as you know the UK we made a deal. It was a very good deal for everybody. Everybody's happy. It's always nice when everybody can be happy, but mostly we'll be charging straight tariffs to most of the rest of the world because we have over 200 countries. People don't realize it's a lot of
[00:05:46] that's a lot of deals. Even if you're like me, a deal junkie, that's a lot of deals. That would be too much for anybody. How did we do with this country that I never heard of? We got a lot of We got a lot of deals cooking, but uh America is taking in hundreds of billions of dollars like it never has before. Uh investments into our country at the highest point ever in history. And we've just really been opened up for business for three of
[00:06:19] the six months. Uh the first couple of months we got ourselves all set. done a great job with our military as you know. You saw that two weeks ago when you saw the way those incredible B2s flew into Iran and took out an entire nuclear potential deadly force. But I want to thank uh some of the incredible people that I see before me, including uh White House AI ZAR David Saxs. He's been great. for organizing this very important summit and especially for putting it in DC where it's a little bit easier. I
[00:07:04] don't know if it's easy for you but it's a hell of a lot easier for me along with his colleagues at the All-In podcast which is very good. I did that podcast a year and a half ago and I said this is something it was pretty new pretty raw. Uh everybody I knew saw that podcast. I said wow he's got something pretty good. Who is that guy? He's a smart guy, by the way. I think if I ever get in, which at the time people were
[00:07:29] saying I had a shot, not as good a shot as it turned out, we won in numbers that nobody believes. We won every swing state. We won by millions and millions of votes, winning the popular vote. We won with the uh districts, as they would call them, uh 2,750 to 505. And that's why the map is almost completely red except for a couple of little blue areas on each side of it. But it was a a great experience frankly for me and hopefully it's a great
[00:08:01] experience and been a great experience for our country because they're saying we had the greatest six months that a president has ever had. The opening six months and I'm not even sure maybe six months. I'm not sure it's the opening but let's call it the opening six months. It sounds a little bit nicer. I want to also uh say hello and thank to Jamath and his wonderful wife Nat. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much. It was great seeing you
[00:08:27] again. Great couple. David Friedberg and uh even as we know Jason Calacanist. I say even thank you Jason. Thank you Jason. I appreciate that. Yeah, he's good person. Thanks as well to the Hill and Valley Forum and our future under secretary of state, Jacob Hellberg. Good. Good. Stand up, Jason. Good. I met him a year and a half ago and I was very impressed. I said, "Let's bring him in. We bring in a lot of smart people and David's been unbelievable as
[00:09:12] the job he's doing along with secretaries Doug Bergam who's been incredible. Doug, thank you. Thank you, Doug. Great job. He's uh he's producing lowcost energy. We're down to $64. I want to get it down a little bit further if we can. And I don't know if the oil companies love that or not, but we want to have very inexpensive electricity so that you can power up the plants cuz you need more electricity than any human beings ever in the history of the world. When I heard what
[00:09:46] you really need, I said, "You got to be kidding. Double what we produce right now for everything, right? I don't know. You're going to Jensen, you're going to have to explain that to me someday. Why they need so damn much? Couldn't you do with a little bit less?" My father always always used to say, "Turn off the lights, son." But you guys are turning up the lights. I want to thank Howard Lutnik for doing
[00:10:11] a terrific job. He was involved in the big deal that we just completed with Japan. Howard, wherever you are, Howard, where is Howard? Hi, Howard. Great job you did. Appreciate it. Really, that was an interesting negotiation, wasn't it? These are tough people. These are good negotiators, I will tell you, Japan, but they love their country and they do what's right for their country. I want to thank Chris Wright, if Chris is around, Chris is here because he's
[00:10:37] helping with uh the uh tremendous energy success that we're having. We're having tremendous energy success. We're the biggest We have more energy than anybody else in the world. Nobody knew that until I came along, but we have more energy than anybody else in the world. We're making incredible deals on energy, including deals in Alaska while we uh sort of that's the mother lode. That's the big one. And we're making deals with various Asian countries that need it.
[00:11:07] And it's actually hard to believe you don't think of it, but Asia is very close to Alaska, relatively speaking. It's not the closest, but it is pretty much the closest when it comes to oil and gas and energy. And we're making some incredible deals. And I want to thank Chris. Chris's fantastic works in partnership really with this gentleman who's the head of uh all of you've got the land and he's got the energy right but you really they formed a great
[00:11:33] partnership Doug so uh that's one of the greatest partnerships I've seen in a long time they work hand in hand and they have done a great job administrators uh Kelly Laughler I think is here Kelly thank you very much hi Kelly thank Kelly and probably the most important important man in the room, and I say it in all sincerity, more important than Doug and Chris and all that energy they're producing. He's a man that produces fast permits on the
[00:12:03] environmental impact statements. He gets them done. I said, Lee, you have one week, one week for nuclear and you have a couple of days for oil and gas, okay, for the approvals. And we kid, but you know, he really is. He's knocking them out fast. He's knocked out a lot. A lot of you guys have started your plants already and you've already had your approvals. So, where is Lee Zeldon? Is he here? He is so great. This guy,
[00:12:33] he is so great. That's why he has a slightly better seat than I gave to Doug. You see, now he's doing a fantastic job in a lot of ways, but he's doing a great job and he's getting fast permits and safe and good and everything else, but he's moving them along rapidly. already given some and you know one of the most exciting things we'll talk about in a second is the fact that you're going to build your own electric producing plants
[00:12:57] when you build whatever you're building and it could be it's different things including automobile factories which are going up all over the place. You'll see them starting soon where they're moving into our country because of the tariffs because they don't want to pay the tariffs. are moving into our country at a record a record speed. But the ability to build your own electric plant, not having to rely on a 100year plus old
[00:13:20] grid, and then if you have electric capacity extra, you're going to sell it into the grid, make some money, but you'll sell it right back into the grid. Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Michael Katzios. Michael, thank you very much. Thank you, Michael. As well, it's supposed to be taking a vote right now. Big vote. Senator Ted Cruz. Is Senator Cruz here? Oh, look at my senator. Why aren't you voting?
[00:13:53] I think we lost David McCormack who's voting. So, why aren't is David here? Because you're supposed to be voting, Ted. I don't know. I'll tell you what, this man works hard. Ted works hard and he works good. And a very special thanks to some of the top industry leaders uh here, including somebody that's amazing. I said, 'Look, we'll break this guy up. This is before I learned the facts of life. I said, "We'll break them up." They said, "No,
[00:14:19] sir. It's very hard." I said, "Why?" I said, "What percentages of the market does he have?" I said, "Sir, he has 100%." I said, "Who the hell is he? What's his name?" His name is Jensen Wong. Nvidia. I said, "What the hell is Nvidia? I've never heard of it before." He said, "You don't want to know about it, sir." I figured we could go in and we could sort of break them up a little bit, get them a little competition. And I found out
[00:14:48] it's not easy in that business. I said, "Supposing we put the greatest minds together. They work hand in hand for a couple of years." He said, "No, it would take at least 10 years to catch him if he ran Nvidia totally incompetently from now on." So I said, "All right, let's go on to the next one." And then I got to know Jensen and now I see why Jensen, will you stand up? What a job. What a job you've done, man.
[00:15:19] Great. It's a great He's a great guy, too. Lisa Sue of AMD. Lisa, Lisa, thank you. Congratulations. Great job. Sham Sakar of Palunteer. We buy a lot of things from Palunteer. Where are you? Are we paying our bills? I think so. We just uh made a deal with the European Union where uh they're going to pay the United States of America 100% of the cost of all military equipment. They're going to ship it to the European Union and then they'll distribute it and much
[00:15:59] of it will go to Ukraine. Uh it's been a long time since you've heard those words because we're in for $350 billion dollars. But now we send it to Europe and Europe pays and uh they were they were great. We had a tremendous NATO meeting a few weeks ago and it was uh pretty amazing actually what happened. They've agreed to go from 2% to 5% and they had 2% where they didn't pay. They have 5% where they've already paid. That's a big difference. That's trillions of dollars actually.
[00:16:29] Trillions. but they're going to spend uh that money in the United States with our defense companies and we're going to send it to them and they'll distribute the equipment that we send. So that's the way it should have been uh three years ago, frankly. And Jeff Spreer, the other half of that incredible family. Is he here? Is he here? He's a fantastic guy. International intercontinental exchange and he's been a friend of mine for a long time. the husband of Kelly who's really doing a good job. You are
[00:17:01] really doing a good job and small business which is actually big business if you add it all up, right? It's probably the biggest bank there is and but they call it small business and she's done a fantastic job. Thanks, Kell. Say hello to Jeff. As we gather this afternoon, we're still in the earliest days of one of the most important technological revolutions in the history of the world. Around the globe, everyone is talking about artificial intelligence. I find that too artificial. I'm I can't stand it. I
[00:17:31] don't even like the name, you know. I don't like anything that's artificial. So, could we straighten that out, please? We should change the name. I actually mean that. I don't like the name artificial anything because it's not artificial. It's genius. It's pure genius and its potential to transform every type of human endeavor and domain of human knowledge from medicine to manufacturing to warfare and national defense. Whether we like it or not,
[00:17:58] we're suddenly engaged in a fast-paced competition to build and define this groundbreaking technology that will determine so much about the future of civilization itself because of the genius and creativity of Silicon Valley. And it is incredible, incredible genius. Without question, the most brilliant place anywhere on earth. America is the country that started the AI race. And as president of the United States, I'm here today to declare that
[00:18:32] America is going to win it. Going to work hard. We're going to win it because we will not allow any foreign nation to beat us. Our children will not live on a planet controlled by the algorithms of the adversaries advancing values and interests contrary to our own. We don't want to have contrary interests. We want to get along and we'll get along with other countries. We're having a great relationship, as I told you, with those countries that we
[00:19:05] mentioned with Japan and Indonesia and so many others. The uh European Union, we're getting along. We're getting along very well with China. a lot of respect for President Xi. We have a great relationship and we'll see how it all works out. But we're getting along with uh countries very it's really been pretty amazing. I will say that and it's a good thing. It's a good thing, not a bad thing. So from this day forward, it'll be a policy of the United States
[00:19:33] to do whatever it takes to lead the world in artificial intelligence. Such an important thing happening. This is really something that nobody expected. It just popped out of the popped out of the air and here we are. But we will defend our nation, our values, our future, and our freedom. And it will be really great. But we what we really need to be successful is a very simple phrase called common sense. And that begins with a common sense application of artificial and intellectual property