[00:14:19] of these decisions. Fast forward to today like obviously in a completely different world but just in terms of the nature of the disease and all that sort of a thing. So all of those sort of policies that existed back then are non-existent today. And it's my way of answering your question of like well is it a temporal thing or not? I would argue that a lot of these sort of like and by the way YouTube in particular was
[00:14:46] ex was was criticized to an extreme amount because of all the content that we left up on the platform around you know the Wuhan virus controversy around like you know whatever um all sorts of other things that we were leaving up that other places were were acting differently on and so we got beat up a lot sort of from one side of the spectrum then Um, and I think that our approach really just has to be flexible to the environment in the
[00:15:15] context of it. I think we're always going to get criticized by being an open platform. There's a lot of magic that happens because of the open platform. All these amazing creators wouldn't exist if we didn't have an open platform and we didn't stand for for free speech. But there's also a lot of Hold I want to follow up on this if I may. There there are two categories that I um I have in my feed because of the
[00:15:36] algorithm. firearms and uh poker. Both of those groups of creators are um a little bit up in arms uh no pun intended because they are being demonetized. So, how do you make a decision on who's allowed to earn and who's not allowed to earn uh and be part of the ad network? Poker folks and people who do firearm safety and and firearm training uh and best practices, they're demonetized um and they're complaining about it now.
[00:16:04] How do you make those kind of decisions? Um, a lot of them are incredibly successful creators on our platform, Jason, but not monetized. No, some of them are monetized as well. So, we we do have a clear set of rules and we've had these for a long time in terms of sales of firearms and those types of things. And obviously, there's there's legal frameworks and all those types of things around it. But I think, you know, in terms of
[00:16:29] firearms community and learning about firearms and safety, which obviously is an important thing, especially for for young people, um we're one of the largest places where those audiences exist, as well as monetization of that type of content. Now the balance and you know obviously and some of this comes from um you know experts that we've worked with in that vertical itself around something might be appropriate
[00:16:53] for an adult user of that type of content that may not be appropriate for a child and those types of things. So there's a lot of nuance behind it, but the poker I don't I mean are we like there's probably something around sports gambling legality and all that sort of stuff but generally speaking as you guys know there's an enormous amount of poker content that's incredibly successful in our platform is back to what Chimath was
[00:17:16] saying which is like whatever niche there is out there however big or however small you're going to find a set of creators that are just as passionate about it as as you are. I think the interesting question is how do you organize yourself across all the different countries in you're in and the scale that you're at to deal with the cultural nuances of every different country and then to deal with the laws of every different country and then to
[00:17:38] deal as David said sometimes the vicissitudes of social policy in every country. How do you deal with that organizationally? Like what does that actually look like? Yeah, it's the part that turns my hair hair white. But uh look I think part of it I say this to my team all the time which is it is a challenge right because we but I think it's a challenge that honestly like I view it as a bit of a privilege in the sense that it wouldn't be
[00:18:07] important if we weren't such an important place especially for young people to uh connect get information entertain themselves learning we're the largest learning platform uh in the world. We know that obviously um just given all the use cases and the watch time etc. And so at least from my standpoint I try to be as global as we possibly can in terms of principles. You know one of the things that I always say about um YouTube is
[00:18:37] like you know our northstar principle and you know uh has always been um give everyone a voice and show them the world. That's our mission statement. Uh it stands for freedom of expression, freedom of speech. We are, you know, an American company and that that notion that sort of value of freedom of spee speech is core to our ethos and we really do try to start with that as a global position. Having said that,
[00:19:03] you're right like there is an enormous patchwork of legislation and regulation that exists in every country. Are there people that are writing policies that then some folks just have to understand and they're manually trying to react to here's how we deal with this issue in India. here's how we deal with this issue in Brazil. Here's how we deal with it in France. Yeah. I mean, look, the answer is um or is it algorithmic or is it a
[00:19:24] combination? It's it's always some combination because you know the scale of YouTube is you know hundreds of hours of content is uploaded to YouTube every single minute of every single day. Um we want to be um as core to that north star as possible. You know, frankly, there's there's situations where we have to push back on that that core uh push back on sort of what might be um an encroachment on that sort of a principle. Having said that,
[00:19:54] we also of course, you know, have to legally operate in all of these No text countries just like any other platform. There's three products, Neil, I'm super obsessed with and I just would love to get your your take on them in terms of priorities for you. YouTube TV, unbelievable. Unbelievable. YouTube Red. That is a great product. Uh YouTube Red, which I think is YouTube Premium taking the ads off. Unbelievable. And then I think a sleeper
[00:20:17] is you've kind of built in Patreon like functionality subscriptions. So maybe you can walk us through the footprint of each of those and the prioritization of those because they do seem to have had a a significant impact on engagement and how people look at the platform. Yeah. No, and I'm super proud of all three of those products. as a product guy myself, like that's that's the fun part of the job is actually building all
[00:20:39] of these amazing products and um uh you know the the their origin story on YouTube TV. I I'm a sports nut. I'm like I'm and actually the the people on my team, a lot of them who've been involved with YouTube TV since the very early days are also big sports guys and I'm also a news junkie and that's the core use case of YouTube TV in many ways. if you think about sort of the the features that we built, multiv- view, key plays,
[00:21:04] even some of the fantasy integrations that you see. So, that's the lens through which you should think about how we're going to continue to develop that product. Uh, and the thought and the question I would always get is like, well, why are you guys doing this? Like, look at what's happening to that part of the the the the paid ecosystem, right? Like, why are you diving into this thing that's like this sort of like, you know,
[00:21:25] shrinking shrinking thing? And our thought was like, well, a lot of it has to do with the fact that like reinventing that whole experience from the standpoint of a fan or a consumer. And so that's the YouTube TV um origin and sort of where it's going. The one thing that you should, you know, pay attention to is um something that we call prime time channels in YouTube, which is a lot of those same sort of linear
[00:21:53] channels or sort of traditional media channels, but that you can buy all a cart in the main YouTube app. Uh and so that that there's connectivity between those two products. Yeah, I was wondering when that would happen because for me it's just CNBC. I want to have it inside of YouTube, but I have to load it. And then when I travel, it's always like, "Oh, what region are you in?" Premium, how many premium subscribers are there now? How is that
[00:22:14] growing? How does that affect the ad business? Because for me, the ads are death. I just I need my time back. So, how do you think about that? Yeah. Um I do think that for our business um advertising is going to remain ha is today and will remain the predominant way through which we monetize on behalf of creators. That 70 billion number that I mentioned most of it comes from ads and the reason is because you know at at a fundamental
[00:22:41] level we are a platform of scale two billion two billion people come to it every single day. Having said that, like giving consumer choice, you know, uninterrupted experience uh is important. There's about 125 million uh subscribers um 25 million pay uh YouTube premium. Amazing. How does that money get split with the creators? So, if I'm watching Mr. Beast without ads, how do you There there's there's a kind of roughly
[00:23:07] sort of engagement watchtime type calculation. Is TV basically the biggest cable subscriber base equivalent? Are we are you um you know where do you guys rank in cable subscribers? Actually, you know, it's interesting the way that even the way you guys are talking about it is like well that's like your uninterrupted sort of TV subscription tier, which is how I think lots of people think about it. The origin uh of YouTube Premium was
[00:23:32] actually a music premium music subscription service, right? It was like called YouTube Music and Premium. And so a lot of those 125 million subs are not just people who are watching it just the way that they would watch like you know Netflix or Amazon without ads. There's a lot of that but a lot of it is just actually music fans too. Like people who for whom their music service is actually Spotify is YouTube right? Like where
[00:23:54] they discover music where they listen to you know watch their favorite videos is YouTube. So how do you have like a uninterrupted music service No text when you have all these incredible AI models all over the place? People will be generating all kinds of content. Some of that content could be news content, topical content. You know, it could talk about a vaccine. It could talk about whatever. Do you guys feel you have a
[00:24:15] responsibility to figure out whether that's real or not? Do you think that's the role of the actual creators? Do you think it should be, you know, the CDC should have a YouTube channel where they watermark the stuff that they put out? And then so like whose responsibility is this going to be? Yeah, I think and how much of it is our responsibility as a consumer? I mean, look, I think that, um, here's how I think about it.
[00:24:38] First, um, with the growth of these AI enablement tools, um, you're going to see that like the distinction between like was it completely AI generated, was it AI assisted, etc. is going to be a continuum. So, that's that's the first piece. Um, and we're already seeing that. We see that on YouTube obviously. you know, you open up the YouTube app, you hit that plus button, um you can type in a text prompt and it will
[00:25:04] generate a video for you using our VO models, right? Um so that that is already happening. One of the things that we do um is um there is a label that says that you know you know # AI generated and um we will put that sort we call it sort of front of the box. We will literally put that on the video and in some cases usually it's in the metadata. Um that's obviously not foolproof. Um, but I I think the way at
[00:25:31] least from a principal standpoint, the way I think about it is, you know, YouTube has these, you know, community guidelines. We try to be transparent about them. We publish them on our website. And I think that sort of like a a priory distinction between, well, it was AI generated, therefore it must be violative versus not actually is not the way to do it. Um, and it's really just about giving as much transparency to the
[00:25:57] users as possible. Um, and then the other thing that's really important is in the creator business, in the creativ creativity business, whether you're a Hollywood celebrity or a YouTuber or or an artist, the the thing that I hear over and over that they really care about is their likeness. And so if you're Taylor Swift, it's your voice. If it's if you're, you know, Marquez Brownley, it is your face like your live. It's your
[00:26:25] No, I mean it's there are people doing live chimoth things to give Bitcoin away and I send it to him and I report it sometime. I send it to Neil. I send it to Neil and I'll tell you the AI slop issue is getting bad. Send it to me directly instead of tagging me. Um the the no the issue really is like um I'm a Corvette fan and um the the incentive is so perverse I've had to ban a bunch of these channels that show me thumbnails
[00:26:52] of this is the new Corvette, this is the new prototype and it's AI slop and it's obvious what they're doing is they're trying to insert themselves into the algorithm and then I just ban them. So you do give control, but I do think really labeling them is import I don't want to put the burden on you to do that. I think the labeling is one piece but the the thing that I was going to say is the other thing and we have a
[00:27:12] track record of content ID which is basically the rights management system that you could argue basically created that whole creator economy in the first place YouTube success. It saved YouTube. So content ID is think about that metaphor as it applies to AI. Yeah. Wonderful. So we are working on this notion of I call it sort of likeness detection where if it's a chimoth face um the algorithm should be good enough
[00:27:38] to actually detect that and then give you a choice as to whether that should come down right is that does that come down or you know there might be some creators that choose to monetize it and give so giving creator we can take ownership of it you can take ownership of it so people take our clips make versions of us as dogs or and it for us it's not just words we actually have a tracker record of doing that because of something like content
[00:27:59] ID. Ladies and gentlemen, Neil Mo, thanks for being here. Thanks, brother. Appreciate it. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Of course.