[00:53:36] from LAX. Tell me how you address transportation in LA. There's always a new scheme or a new system being developed. What's your view on what's wrong about transportation in LA? And how much are we wasting on things that don't really matter that we could recoup and reinvest elsewhere? What are those kind of priorities for you? >> So, I just went to the new opening of the Dline today just to to troll to get some yimies to yell at me. And my
[00:54:02] funniest the funniest part about transportation to me is it's a beautiful idea when there's no human urine, human poop on there, a drug addict's butt hanging out. People forget every single person in LA sends me their photos. I'm now 311. I see what LA looks like. These people go, &quot;How do you know all this information? My phone, I can't even open it anymore cuz it's just naked drug addicts. It's the craziest thing you've
[00:54:26] ever seen.&quot; Who cares how many lines that Metro connects to where it could connect to the moon right now, but if drug addicts are smoking fentanyl next to your kid, you're not going to the moon on it. So, first off, it's back to safety. We need these metro, the subway, whatever you want to ride. Bicycles aren't even safe. The yims want more bicycle. Like, I you couldn't even pay me to get on a bicycle. A drug addict
[00:54:49] zombie will hit me with a with a crowbar when I'm riding by. We need to get safety back. And of course, I love these transportation ideas. I hate sitting in traffic, but I've grown up in LA. I'm aware of traffic is a part. So, yes, we need this, but we also need the money for it. We need to build LA up. Right now, I think 15% of the budget goes to the metro if 5% people use it. Again, I feel like if I made it safe, I could
[00:55:13] give 15% to use it and we could even that out. We got to make sure that nobody's hopping any turn style. We need to make sure you're paying to be on it so that it's safe people on it. again. Back when I clear downtown LA for you can drive for 40 blocks. When I clear all these empty banned buildings that the drug addicts are burning down and using all our firefighter resources and risking their lives. When we clear that
[00:55:37] all out and we use these 3D printing. I I talked to an architect today, one of the most famous architects in the world. He has a crew of like 12 architects. They're all They already did all these designs for these buildings that nobody listened to them. They met with Newsome. They met with Bass. Of course, I'm like, &quot;Let's do it. Set me over the decks. We're going to have LA so beautiful. No more of these high density SB79
[00:55:59] prison-like structures. We need to bring art deco back. All the architects that moved out of here because it was so hard to build. Takes 8 years. They're going to be moving back cuz we're going to speed up building. It's not going to take eight years. We need LA to be the most beautiful architecture in the world. I don't want to go to Venice. I don't want to go go look at Venice. I want to go to Venice, downtown LA. I'm
[00:56:19] going have a canal and then the Yimi people, they can have all their bike lanes going through the sky through tunnels and things. We need to get creative with LA. >> Can you address the regulatory and permitting problem with construction and building in the city? As mayor, do you have enough authority to do this? So, can you talk a little bit about the actions you would take to unleash this kind of wave of building that you want
[00:56:42] to see happen that everyone talks about wanting to see happen in LA, but there just seems to be so many layers of permitting, so many processes, so much approval, but it's statutory. It's written into the law of the city. Do you have the authority as the mayor to actually be able to go in and address that and unleash this without getting these folks that are the assembly people and whatnot to work with you? So, I had
[00:57:03] a lunch today with he volunteered to be the new head of LA building and safety. I said, &quot;Well, you're the first volunteer of somebody who does this at the highest level for right now in private business for Los Angeles knows every we'll add them to the website back to like my team. The goal here is to put the whole team listing their bios.&quot; He said, &quot;Spencer, we could do this so easily. We can fix all these things. I
[00:57:28] know all the errors cuz private business is the ones fighting this city all the time. They know where all the stops. I met with this affordable housing developer Carlos on Monday. He said when Mayor Bass announced her initiative, she was going to rush it 6 months. He's at 2 and 1/2 years in the permit process. He said Spencer that we can fix this so easy and build beautiful affordable housing. He said they're getting these
[00:57:53] tax incentives to build cells for people. Cells. He said because they get more incentives to put more people in the building. We need to change that. We need to make it where he's saying twobedroom, a nice two-bedroom, he can do for $250 a square foot versus $750 square foot. These other developers are using the tax incentives, charging the city, and then putting more bodies in there. So, yes, we can do all this stuff
[00:58:18] when we take these people out. Perfect example, my Airstream. It took weeks weeks for LWP to put one wire to my Airstream from a pole across the street. That's the cut the red tape town. That's this is the fastest >> operationally you can address that. But all of the permits that are required design review like AI. I know people don't like AI but you know even Caruso he was trying to with initially he had this whole thing. He
[00:58:46] put the money up was steadfast and he offered this AI program to Mayor Bass certain zoning situations if it meets all this boom you right now there's like a it's like out of a bad movie some guy comes he's like he misses three and he has to do like one checkbox he's like oh I'll come back and do that like it's out of a bad movie they say it's truly and if you go to the nobody's even in these offices you have to set an appointment
[00:59:13] you can't just go into these places they all work remote is maybe co they're still >> yeah they work three days a week don't they >> we're in crazy land so again all these meetings I keep having with very successful heads of companies that tell me Spencer when people say you don't have experience you tell them these are people that have multiple companies I'm they say I'm never the most experienced person in any of the rooms of my
[00:59:36] companies but everyone in my company is the most experienced person in what they need to do in that role and I'm well aware of I don't know any of this stuff But I know I want LA to be the number one safest, most beautiful. How do we get there? Who are you? What's your resume? What's your background? Oh, wow. Okay, come on. Keep in mind Janice Quinionz, who was the CEO of LWP, who drained two reservoirs leading into a
[01:00:03] known year of the driest fire weather season, took out the water with no plan, no backups, no tankers. She was getting paid $750,000 a year plus her benefits. There are people across the United States, running water and power in functioning cities that we can go recruit and say, &quot;Hey, come to LA. It's going to be safe and clean and we're going to get you a nice place. You take over.&quot; People want to live in LA. I'm
[01:00:31] not trying to give people jobs with respect to Antarctica. Hello. We talent will come here, >> right? There's people all over the world that are telling me, &quot;Hey, we want to make LA the Silicon Valley of the world. LA should be the tech center of the world.&quot; With respect to San Francisco or wherever these people are and Marin, I don't even know where they are. Wherever you guys are, you're coming you're
[01:00:54] coming to LA. LA is way doper and you're going to have a beautiful safe place and way more room to build all your tech companies and robots and drones. Whatever you want to build, we're going to build them. pretty nice up there, too. But, >> you know, they don't have the they don't have the beach. You're going to be able to swim without poop in the water. It's going to be incredible. >> Well, I grew up in the valley and you go
[01:01:15] down Ventura Boulevard, it's all strip malls. These are all small businesses that are owned by families. They have been typically for one, two, three generations. Armenian, Persian, Hispanic populations, folks that grew up in the valley. Small business, I think, is the lifeblood of this city. Like, it's such an important part of the city. We've never had major corporations that everyone works for. There's a couple of
[01:01:35] them, but generally it's a small business town. How much have you looked at the regulatory permitting, all the nonsense that goes into opening up a nail salon, starting a coffee shop, getting the permits required to open up a new store, and what can be done there to accelerate, to fasttrack, to enable all these folks, a lot of them first or second generation immigrants, that want to come here and build, that want to
[01:01:57] start businesses, that want to have their own company. How do we get them? Because the complaint is it's just so faking hard today. It's so expensive. It takes so long. Have you gone through this and figured out what are the things you can just delete as mayor and what are the things you can just fasttrack as mayor to make it so much easier for people to start and run small businesses in the city? >> So my friend in Venice, his his neighbor
[01:02:20] just bought the local bodega that's been there forever. And he was telling me they're about to give up. It's been a year. He said they're not even selling alcohol. There's no food. It was just going to be this basic bodega. And the list of things that it's taken in a year is so crazy. They'll make them put in one thing and then they come in and they say, &quot;Oh, no, actually that it's like a maze. We need to just streamline all
[01:02:44] these things.&quot; And what I keep learning, whether it's transportation, sanitation, there's no accountability. People get paid no matter if they're a failure. It's not resultsbased. >> How many turns? >> Yes. Nobody like if you don't get this many permits. For instance, somebody called me yesterday. They go why is film LA a nonprofit which like you need they have to come to set. I was like what do you mean? He's like this should be for a
[01:03:06] profit to incentivize bringing production. So they are getting they're actively we don't care. It's this idea that oh I'm getting paid no matter what. Nobody cares. There's no checks and balances. Mayor is fine as long as she's driving to go to the airport to go to Ghana to have a cocktail party. There's nobody that cares, right? Because I met with this guy Juan from Clean LA who cleans the streets of all from all the
[01:03:29] trash. He's from Ecuador. He came over here and he said, &quot;What is this, Spencer? I'm from a third world country. It's so much more beautiful. I can't live here with my family.&quot; So he started cleaning trash on his own. I said, &quot;Well, Juan, what's going on?&quot; He's like, &quot;Spencer, nobody cares. They don't care.&quot; He says, &quot;I watch these trash truck things.&quot; He said, &quot;They pick up
[01:03:47] the trash and it just throws it like out of a meme and it just goes back on the street.&quot; He says, &quot;They're sleeping in the cars. There's no accountability. There's no responsibility.&quot; I said, &quot;Juan, well, when I'm mayor, can I hire you?&quot; He said, &quot;Spencer, I will help run sanitation.&quot; He goes, &quot;It's supposed to be a billion dollars.&quot; He goes, &quot;I could do it for easily 500 million.&quot; So, I'm
[01:04:04] thinking, I just saved $500 million for taxpayers because Juan cares. And he says, &quot;I'll bring in people that care.&quot; As mayor, you can probably auto stamp a lot of stuff too that today they're just delegating down to people who take a long time getting things done that probably you don't need to spend a lot of time looking at. Just auto stamp the bodega license and let them run. You really need to have the guy go in and
[01:04:25] figure out where everything is. >> This is back to if it meets these criteria, we need to time >> like here's the auto green light. >> LA needs to be like annoying how many cranes we see for the next eight years. It needs to look like we're in China where they're building these bridges in like two weeks. We need all these cranes. There's no cranes. You can't even see a crane. My kids probably don't even know what crane looks like.
[01:04:50] >> If one of the other two candidates win, what happens to LA? >> Well, I will have to move to Bentonville or I'm done. You know, that's why I'm fighting. People won't get I want my sons to grow up in LA. You cannot grow up in LA. You're done. You listen to them in the debate. They're talking about more beds. They don't even They don't even accept that LA is in a nightmare. Yes, I love LA. It has the potential to be the greatest place on
[01:05:19] planet Earth. But we need to acknowledge we are in a scary part right now in LA. The lights don't work on the street. They don't fix roads within a year. They have they don't every pothole is breaking everyone's tires. You can't get 311 to fix anything. We don't have enough cops to call 911. There's not enough firefighters. towns burn down. Bair is going to burn. Manavville Canyon, Sunland to Hunga, Hollywood
[01:05:42] Hills, all these are going to burn. It's guaranteed. And like I said in the debate, I'm going to put these dip sites mile from everyone's how they're all going to connect. They're going to connect to private owners swimming pools. I'm going to work with the insurance companies so we can bring insurance back to California first LA because we're going to show them the model because if they have these dip sites for these helicopters, we bring in
[01:06:03] more of these shinooks that LA County uses to work with the the fire hawks that we have with LA city and and Calire, we can bring insurance back, which is the biggest problem right now for people building. We're going to get rid of this ULA. I know I can't do it myself, but I'm going to fight to make sure these communist type things don't ever happen to development. so people can sell their properties, build
[01:06:25] housing. I'm going to stop letting these tenants being squatters, criminals, make it so landlords have to pay them 50 grand cash to leave and then they go to it to a new landlord. I'm going to stop the section 8 scam so that real people that deserve section 8 get it. Veterans, families that need it, not just drugdeing criminals that are, you know, abusing the system with fraud. But yes, if I lose, we're done. I'm trying to
[01:06:51] tell people this is like out of a movie. Like this is Independence Day. The aliens have attacked. They they got it's an invasion is here. Yeah. >> And then as mayor I have to fight all these DSA city council members. Make sure they're never reelected. So not only do I have to do all that, but I got to fight to make sure that my next four years there's never a DSA fake Democrat. They're not Democrats. Democrats love
[01:07:15] Spencer Pratt. All my friends are Democrats. All my supporters are Democrats. These people I'm up against, they use the word Democrat in front of the word socialist. Go look at the Democratic Socialist America's website, people. Go look at it. That's not a Democrat. Bill Clinton was a Democrat. >> It's not an American. >> Thank you. It's even worse. These aren't even Americans. And when you say that, people are like, &quot;Oh my god, this
[01:07:36] country was founded because people fled tyranny in Europe and then everywhere else in the world.&quot; And this was the bastion where you could find hope and an opportunity to be free, to choose how you want to behave, what you want to do, how you want to pray, to have freedom that the government doesn't tell you what to do and how to do it. And that tyranny existed all over the world. And that's why this country was started. And
[01:07:58] socialism is the most tyrannical form, the most tyrannical system that humans have ever come up with. And so you got the word socialist in there. You've already made the mistake because you've revealed yourself. My opinion. Sorry, I had to rant on my own show. just I I took advantage of the opportunity. >> I have very smart friends that are from LA and I say they're DSA. They got foot soldiers and they go, &quot;What's a DSA?&quot;
[01:08:18] So, it's a sneak attack. It's like Ninja Turtles. They're in the sewers. They're like, they're like Shredder and Company. So, fast forward eight years. You've been mayor for eight years. I'm going to give you It's a four-year term, right? Two two terms. >> You're sitting down with your sons and they're saying, &quot;Dad, what did you do to save LA?&quot; What do you tell them? Tell me about that journey in retrospect. I
[01:08:39] would say thank God people voted for laws sons and I enforced the laws that are there. I did what everyone did before the current leadership. So I keep telling people the experience I don't need to invent anything. I don't need to come up with this utopia of how a city works. You make a city safe and people will put money into it. They'll want to live here. Commerce comes back. Families will be able to go to parks and go to