[00:40:39] enforce the law. Councilwoman Ramen can bring in all the same people that I'm meeting with. It won't work if you don't enforce the law. No one's putting money into the city of LA until they know there's a mayor that's going to make sure the streets are safe for all the moms, the kids, the dads, everyone that just wants to be a normal human being that just pays their taxes, goes to the park, go to dinner. So until you do that
[00:40:59] part, all this who's going to be this is irrelevant. But the list of people is So again, >> for sure cuz I hear I hear it from a lot of executives I'm friends with, they're like, man, this message resonates. People want to get involved. They want to step up. Like I said, people not from LA want to step up. Outside of keeping the streets safe, outside of building a reasonable fire suppression infrastructure, getting back to basics.
[00:41:24] What about education? We have young kids. LA USD spends $23,000 per student. $101,000 average teacher salary. It's number one in the country. But LA USD as a school district ranks 170th in the state of California. and only 46% of students are meeting or exceeding standards in English, 37% in math. What is there to do about education in the city to give all of the next generation the opportunity to progress, to realize
[00:41:52] their potential, and to not fall into the traps of socialism and communism because they're despondent and they don't have opportunity in front of them. How do we get that generation to succeed? Well, for my own experience with my son who was in LA USD and it was even a charter with PAL. This is supposed to be the best version at all times. Every parent is just trying to fund raise fundra for books for learning
[00:42:15] for teach for an extra teacher and it's like what is going on? If I'm going to spend this much money, I'm going to put my kid in a private school. How would these schools So, first off, we got to back to auditing. The biggest issue I've learned with the city of LA, whether it's the school systems, everyone needs to be audited. Where is all this money going to first off at the fire department, the police department, the
[00:42:37] waste of this taxpayer money? So, let's figure first out where the money is going because if it's cost this much for each student, yet as a dad, I'm trying to always donate, have fundraisers. We got to we got to track the money. And that's another thing that when we talk about what's Mayor Pratt, it's accountability and transparency. Every dollar of tax money in the city of LA needs to be on very easy cliffnotes
[00:43:01] level dashboards so we can track and get results of where all of our tax money is going. But back to how we make kids know socialism and communism doesn't work is we give their parents hope again and we make the parents demand. I have kids I have parents right now that are pulling their kids out of a school, public school that my kids are in right now because of that messaging. There's no more pledge of allegiance. There's no
[00:43:24] more America's, you know, good. We just need to go back to having pride in being Americans. We've gotten so far off of just America's awesome because everyone's fighting with political and it's like, oh, American flag is like, I can't put that up. Like, we need to get back to the basics of where our grandparents were when they were fighting World War II and had pride in being Americans. But to me, it's the money. Where's the money going? Like if
[00:43:51] you want things to be better, we got to stop wasting money. The fire stations that I meet with, they're charging $250,000 for doors, $50,000 for refrigerators. So I think tracking money is the source of all of this. I have a buddy, his house burnt down, unfortunately as well. So I was like, I'm going to meet with Spencer Pratt. Any questions? He said, what about this stupid ass $3 billion expansion of the convention center? My favorite part
[00:44:16] about the convention center is like a month ago, less than a month ago, it's just a dead body in the bushes in front of the convention center. So that the idea that we're going to put billions of dollars into something that has dead bodies in the bushes in front. Why aren't we putting the billions of dollars in getting the dead bodies from stopping to be on the streets every day? But I don't want to say, initially I was
[00:44:37] like, stop that. But now I'm in this like LA's got to be the number one city in the world. So maybe we don't need to use LA money, but let's do private partnership. Who's going to come in with money to do something right now we can't afford? But I don't want to be the one now that's like, we don't want to stop building. I actually like the idea of having a convention center cuz the LA that I'm about to build when I destroy
[00:44:58] 40 blocks of drugged out zombies that are taking all these empty buildings. So much business and commerce is going to come in. We're probably going to need that convention center. Currently, there makes no sense with the current administration. Mayor Bass is elected is the dumbest thing you ever heard. If Councilwoman Ramen's elect is the dumbest thing, Mayor Pratt goes in and we're putting billions of dollars of
[00:45:19] money back in LA. Restaurants are back. We're probably going to need that convention center. So, initially when I was first fighting this fight, my message was let's get back to LA I grew up in. I was like started taking on this meeting with billionaires ready to give me $500 million. I met with a billionaire anonymous billionaire that agreed to be the funar. He said, &quot;My family gave $300 million to New York for
[00:45:43] a project. We'll give you $500 million to bring fund back to Los Angeles.&quot; I was like, &quot;Can I tell people about you?&quot; He's like, &quot;No, no, I'll be the anonymous.&quot; This person is for real. So to me, when I hear there's $2 billion, if I make that convention center a little bit more fun, I have a $500 million now, then we can make it the fun convention center, and I just I just cut that cost in half. So yes,
[00:46:07] right now it makes no sense. Have you met with union leaders? >> No, they all they all back Mayor Bass. So, they're all going to love me because everyone's going to have more revenue. Everyone's going to have jobs. LA's going to So, when they're like, &quot;You're not going to win because you don't have the unions. I don't need the unions to win. I have the moms. I have the animal lovers. That's more than any union.
[00:46:27] That's you can't get that endorsement. Moms across the city of LA. Not moms just in the valley. Not moms just in San Pedro. Not moms in South Central. Not moms in East LA. Not moms in boil heights, not moms in Eagle. Everywhere moms don't feel safe. The city is unsafe. No matter what how much crime stats, the feeling and unsafe is resonating. And my message of I will be the guy that's fighting to get safety back is going to get me elected. And I
[00:46:54] keep telling people I'm going to win on June 2nd with 51% of the vote. November is their fighting for November. I win June 2nd. But the unions obviously people think it's this big issue when you won't when your city is amazing. >> How are you going to work with them? So you win on June 2nd. All the union leaders call up your deputy mayor say, &quot;I want a meeting with Mayor Pratt.&quot; They come into your office one at a
[00:47:19] time. They sit down across a table from you. What's the message? >> The message is we're going to work with you to make sure you get these benefits that you want, but they need to make sense right now at our trajectory. We're gonna get to where what you need to feel comfortable in your city role is great, but there may be a minute here where we got to tighten things up. I'm gonna find all these homeless NGO billions that are
[00:47:40] being laundered, but we need to get real accounting. Right now, we don't have outside budget advocates that right, we don't look if we're increasing a union 10% salary even though everybody else in the private industry isn't getting increased. We need to have a balance. We need it makes sense for all evangelists. can't have everything just for this small percentage because they're cooking votes. But don't get me wrong, unions,
[00:48:04] I'm going to make so much money in this city that we're going to have plenty of money that you're paid what you're supposed to be paid. Law enforcement is going to get paid what they're supposed to get paid. We cannot lose law enforcement because they're getting paid more in Laguna Beach, Newport Beach, Norwich County. So, we can't risk lose. We're already losing too many law enforcement. We're losing too many
[00:48:22] firefighters. So, we cannot make it where they don't want to work. And a lot of the issues where people see these salaries that are so crazy, it's overtime. But if you don't get the hiring up to speed, then you have to pay this crazy these salaries in overtime. And even that, these people that do get paid, these crazy things you read on Google, those top little it's a niche amount of people and they've sacrificed
[00:48:43] their family. They're working 32 days. These people are crazy. So they've given everything they have to be that firefighter or whatever. for that. So again, >> the unions aren't your enemy. You're going to find a path to working with them. Even though they're not here for you right now, they're worth Mayor Bass. You're there for them. >> They're still hardworking people. I meet with I've gone almost I'm going to a lot
[00:49:04] of fire stations. LFD union for sure endorses me. They just are scared to do it publicly for retaliation. LAPD for sure, the members all endorse me. I promise you. the interaction, who's messaging me, who's calling me, who's texting me, the union power, they, Mayor Bass currently writes their deals and their checks. That's real. I don't judge them for that. It's the system they're in. But the membership, they they want
[00:49:30] to feel safe. Most of the firefighters can't even live in California anymore. 60% of these guys fly in. And I say, &quot;Well, why don't you guys live here? Like, it's not safe for our families. I want them to move back. I want that tax money.&quot; >> One of the other stories about LA over the last decade or two, you know, I grew up here. I have a lot of friends who grew up in Hollywood in the industry and it's been gutted. There's no business in
[00:49:53] LA anymore. And that's a huge employer for so many Angelinos working in Hollywood and all of the ancillary supporting industries. Do we rebuild Hollywood in LA? Is Hollywood done because of AI and YouTube and independent production and studios don't matter anymore? No one does broadcast. What's the future of Hollywood? Is there a future for Hollywood in LA? And and what do you do about it? So when I was 20 years old, I sold the first the
[00:50:19] youngest ever sold the first reality show to Fox as the youngest executive producer ever. And I sold it to Peter Churn when he was the co-chair of News Corp. It was with David Foster who's actually hosting my fundraiser on Monday, full circle. Shout out David Foster, legend. But I called Peter Churn up a few weeks ago. I said, &quot;Mr. Churn, PDC, how do I save LA? It's one of the smartest human beings on earth.&quot; He
[00:50:43] said, &quot;Spencer, as mayor, you you're not going to be able to change the bigger picture of Hollywood. That's more governor, you know, uncap. What you can do to really bring back jobs, bring back Hollywood, is bring back independent filmmakers, independent production, independent artists. You prioritize the indies, you could have Hollywood booming in a tier that people didn't see coming. And all my friends who haven't given up,
[00:51:09] that are still, cuz I grew up in in LA. I went to Crossroads. All my friends are creators. They're artists. They're still fighting. They're not giving up. When I talk to them, they've all doubled down on the indie route. When I talk to them, they say, &quot;This is what we need to hear. We want to make this work.&quot; And you you work with them. Mayor Bass brags about like, &quot;Oh, now you can film at the
[00:51:29] Griffith Conservatory. Instead of 70,000, it's 30.&quot; No. When I'm mayor, I'm going to help you produce these freaking movies. We're going to get We're going to have whole blocks and we're going to use the restaurants to keep them alive and we're going to use the crews. We're going to eat out of there. We're going to use all the city resources to almost be in production with the Indies, but making money together. You know, not like a communist
[00:51:51] or socialist, but in bring the city enable, give them the support, get the rid of these fees, the clearance, make it easy. Right now, like I said in the debate, I talked to producers. If you want to film on the streets of LA, it's so unsafe. You got to pay gang members off to get We're gonna have it so safe that an indie crew can pop out with all their cameras and gear and not get stolen. So again, someone like Peter
[00:52:13] Churnin, I said, &quot;Peter, when I'm mayor, can I keep calling you?&quot; And he his exact quote, &quot;I'm always here to make you smarter, Spencer.&quot; >> So these are the type of people when they say, &quot;Oh, you have no experience.&quot; These are the people that are going to make LA number one. >> But that is the future. I mean, everyone is all about independent production. If you work for a big studio or work for
[00:52:30] Netflix, you're getting paid cost plus 10%. You're better off producing on your own. There's definitely a flourishing happening. It's just happening everywhere else. It's not happening in LA. And obviously I've reached out to David Ellison's team. I've reached out to Ted Sranos. I've reached out to everyone because I don't just want to be the indie guy. I want to figure out how I go fight whoever the new governor is.
[00:52:51] Get uncapped. Get postp production uncapped. Get as nobody should be going to UK. Nobody should be going to Canada. With the respect these countries, I love you guys, but we're not sending our filmmakers there anymore. So whatever I can do as a mayor, you know, last the other night in the debate, they're like, we're going to do it. You guys have had 10 years combined. You haven't done anything. I love fighting these people.
[00:53:11] I will I've been fighting Sacramento since my house burned down. I You get me bodyguards to fight these people. Trust me, we are going to a whole new level of fight. So again, I don't want to not have studios come back. We have all these empty lots. I would love big productions to come back, but initially as mayor, I can fight for indies. But don't get me wrong, I want Hollywood to be top gun three right here. Take off
[00:53:36] from LAX. Tell me how you address transportation in LA. There's always a new scheme or a new system being developed. What's your view on what's wrong about transportation in LA? And how much are we wasting on things that don't really matter that we could recoup and reinvest elsewhere? What are those kind of priorities for you? >> So, I just went to the new opening of the Dline today just to to troll to get some yimies to yell at me. And my
[00:54:02] funniest the funniest part about transportation to me is it's a beautiful idea when there's no human urine, human poop on there, a drug addict's butt hanging out. People forget every single person in LA sends me their photos. I'm now 311. I see what LA looks like. These people go, &quot;How do you know all this information? My phone, I can't even open it anymore cuz it's just naked drug addicts. It's the craziest thing you've
[00:54:26] ever seen.&quot; Who cares how many lines that Metro connects to where it could connect to the moon right now, but if drug addicts are smoking fentanyl next to your kid, you're not going to the moon on it. So, first off, it's back to safety. We need these metro, the subway, whatever you want to ride. Bicycles aren't even safe. The yims want more bicycle. Like, I you couldn't even pay me to get on a bicycle. A drug addict
[00:54:49] zombie will hit me with a with a crowbar when I'm riding by. We need to get safety back. And of course, I love these transportation ideas. I hate sitting in traffic, but I've grown up in LA. I'm aware of traffic is a part. So, yes, we need this, but we also need the money for it. We need to build LA up. Right now, I think 15% of the budget goes to the metro if 5% people use it. Again, I feel like if I made it safe, I could
[00:55:13] give 15% to use it and we could even that out. We got to make sure that nobody's hopping any turn style. We need to make sure you're paying to be on it so that it's safe people on it. again. Back when I clear downtown LA for you can drive for 40 blocks. When I clear all these empty banned buildings that the drug addicts are burning down and using all our firefighter resources and risking their lives. When we clear that
[00:55:37] all out and we use these 3D printing. I I talked to an architect today, one of the most famous architects in the world. He has a crew of like 12 architects. They're all They already did all these designs for these buildings that nobody listened to them. They met with Newsome. They met with Bass. Of course, I'm like, &quot;Let's do it. Set me over the decks. We're going to have LA so beautiful. No more of these high density SB79