[00:14:57] get a couple of unicorns once in a while, but are we going to see like all developers like, you know, their productivity hit that level 8 n 10 and they're just going to or is it going to be all done by computers and we're just going to check it, make sure it's not too weird. Um, because it could get weird if you vibe code. Yeah, I'm embarrassed to say this. Okay. I like recently I just had a big tiff inside the company because we had this list of
[00:15:23] what you're allowed to use to code and what you're not allowed to use to code and the Gemini was on the no list. You Oh, you have to be pure. You can't I don't know for like a bunch of really weird reasons that it would like boggled my mind that you know you couldn't vibe code on the Gemini code. I mean, nobody would like enforce this rule, but um but there was this, you know, actual internal web page. For whatever reason,
[00:15:48] historical reason, somebody had put this and I had a big fight with them and I, you know, I cleared it up after a shocking period of time. You escalated to your boss. Oh, I I definitely told about it and I Sorry, I don't know if you remember, but you got super voting founders. You are the boss. You can do what you want. It's your company still. No, no, it was uh he was very supportive. I was more like uh uh I was
[00:16:14] like I talked to him. I was like I can't deal with these people. You need to deal with this. Like I just like I'm beside myself that they're like saying it's weird that there's bureaucracy like in a company that you must be a weird experience to meet the bureaucracy in a company that you didn't hire. But but on the other side of it I would say it's pretty amazing that some junior mucky muck can basically look at you and say
[00:16:34] hey go yourself. No but I'm serious. That's a sign of a healthy culture actually I guess. So anyway, it did get fixed and uh people are using it. So they got fired. That person's working in Google Siberia. No, we're trying to, you know, roll out every possible kind of AI and and trying external ones, you know, be whatever the cursors of the world, all all of those uh to just see what really makes people more productive. Um I mean for myself
[00:17:05] definitely makes me more productive because I'm not do you do you think the number of foundational models like if you look three years forward will they start to cleave off and gets highly specialized like beyond the general and the reasoning maybe there's a very specific model for chip design there's clearly a very specific model for biologic precursor design protein folding like is the number of foundational models in the future Sergey
[00:17:31] a multiple of what they are today the same something in between. That's a great question. I kind of if I I mean look I don't know like you guys take a guess just as well as I can but um if I had to guess you know things have been more converging uh and uh this is sort of broadly true across machine learning I mean you used to have all kinds of different kinds of models and whatever convolutional networks for vision things and you know
[00:18:02] you had um whatever RNN's for text and speech and stuff and uh you know all this has shifted to transformers basically uh and uh increasingly it's also just becoming one model um now we do get a lot of oomph occasionally we do specialized models uh and it's it's definitely scientifically a good way to iterate when you have a particular target you don't have to like do everything in every language and handle whatever both
[00:18:35] images and video and audio and uh in one go. Um but we are generally able to after we do that take those learnings and basically put that capability into a general model. So there's not that much benefit. Um you know you could you can get away with a somewhat smaller specialized model a little bit faster a little bit cheaper but the trends have not gone that way. What do you think about the open source closed source
[00:19:05] thing? Has there been big philosophical movements that change your perspective on the value of open source? Um, we're still waiting on this o, you know, open AI. Oh, yeah. Open source drop. I mean, we haven't seen it yet, but theoretically it's coming. I mean, have to give credit uh to where credit's due. I mean, Deepseek released a really surprisingly powerful model uh when it was January or so. So, that that definitely closed the
[00:19:34] gap to proprietary models. We've pursued both. So, we released Gemma uh which are our open- source or you know open models and um those perform really well. They're small, dense models, so they fit well on one computer. Um, and uh, they're not as powerful as Gemini. Uh, but I mean, the jury's out which way that's going to go. Do you have a point of view on what human computing interaction looks like as AI progresses?
[00:20:07] It used to be, thanks to you, as a search box. You type in some keywords or a question and you would click on links on the internet and get an answer. Is the future typing in a question or speaking to a AirPod or thinking or thinking or like what's the what's the Yeah. And then the answer is just spoken to you. I mean by by the way just to build on this it was Friday, right? Neuralink got breakthrough designation
[00:20:32] for their human brain interface. I mean that's a very big step in allowing the FDA to clear everybody getting it implanted. Yeah. Is it like if you could just summarize what you think is kind of the most common place human computer interaction model in the next decade or whatever. Is it a you know there's this idea of glasses with a screen in the glasses and you tried that a long time ago. Yeah, I kind of messed that up.
[00:20:55] I'll be honest. Uh got the timing totally wrong on that. Early again. Yeah. Uh right. Right. But early. There are a bunch of things I wish I had done differently, but honestly it was just like the technology wasn't ready for for Google class. Uh but nowadays these things I think are more sensible. I mean there's still battery life issues I think that you know we and others need to overcome. Uh but I think that's a cool form factor. I
[00:21:23] mean when you say 10 years though you know a lot of people are saying hey the singularity is like five years away. So your ability to see through that into the future. I mean it's very important. But do you have anybody else? Sorry. Just let me ask about this. Do you There was a comment that Larry made years ago that humans were a stepping stone in evolution. Okay. Can you comment on this? Like do you do you think that this
[00:21:52] AGI super intelligence or really silicon intelligence exceeds human capacity and humans are a stepping stone in you know progression of evolution? Boy, I think like sometimes us nerdy guys go and get have a little too much wine. I've had two glasses and um I'm ready to go. I I need some more for this conversation. Um human implants. Let's go. I mean, I guess we're starting to get experience with these AIs that can do certain
[00:22:21] things, you know, much better than us. Um, and they're definitely, you know, with my skill of math and coding, I feel like I'm better off just turning to the AI now. And how do I feel about that? I mean, it doesn't really bother me, you know, I use it as a tool. So, I feel like I've gotten used to it, but you know, maybe if they get even more capable in the future, um, I'll look at it differently. Yeah, there's a moment of insecurity, maybe. I
[00:22:51] guess. So, as an aside, management is like the easiest thing to do with the AI. Yeah, absolutely. And I did this, you know, uh, at Gemini on some of our, you know, work chats, um, kind of like Slack, but we have our own version. We had this AI tool that actually was really powerful. We unfortunately anyway temporarily got rid of it. I think we're going to bring it back and bring it to everybody. But it it could suck down a
[00:23:14] whole chat space and then answer pretty complicated questions. So I was like, "Okay, summarize this for me." Okay, now assign something for everyone to work on and uh and then I would paste it back in so people didn't realize it was the AI. I I admitted it pretty soon. Um and there were a few giveaways here or there, but it worked remarkably well. And then I was like, well, who should be promoted in this chat space? Uh, and I
[00:23:41] actually picked out this woman, this young woman engineer who like, you know, I didn't even notice she wasn't very vocal uh particularly in that PRs kicked ass. No, no, it was like and then uh I don't know something that the AI had detected and I went I talked to the manager actually and and he was like, "Yeah, you know what? You're right. Like she's been working really hard all these things." Wow. I think that ended up
[00:24:05] happening actually. Uh so I don't know. I guess after a while you just kind of take it for granted that you can just do these things. I don't know. It hasn't really Do you think that there's a a use case for like an infinite context link? Oh 100%. I mean all of Google's codebase goes infinite but sure you should have access infinite. Yeah. Stateful. Yeah. and then multiple sessions so that you could have like 19 of these things, 20
[00:24:32] of these things running or just evolve itself. Eventually, it'll evolve itself. Yeah. I mean, I guess if it knows everything, then you can have just one in theory. You just need to somehow disambiguate what you're talking about. Uh but yeah, for sure there's no limit to use of uh context and there, you know, there are a lot of ways to make it larger and larger. There's a there's a rumor that internally there's a Gemini
[00:24:56] build that is a quasi infinite context. Is it is it a valuable thing? Like I don't know. Well, you say what you want to say, but I mean for any such cool new idea in AI, there are probably five such things internally. Um and uh you know the question is how well do they work? And um yeah, I mean we're definitely pushing all the bounds um in terms of intelligence, in terms of context, in terms of um speed, you know, you name
[00:25:24] it. And what about the hardware? Like when you guys build stuff, do you care that you have this pathway to Nvidia or do you think eventually that'll get abstracted and there'll be a transpiler and it'll be Nvidia plus 10 other options, so who cares? Let's just go as fast as possible. Well, we mostly for for Gemini, we mostly use our own TPUs. So, um but we also do support um Nvidia and we we're one of the big uh uh
[00:25:52] purchasers of Nvidia chips and we have them in Google Cloud available for our customers uh in addition to TPUs. Um at this stage it's uh for better or for worse not that abstract and maybe someday the AI will abstract it for us but you know given just the amount of computation you have to do on these models you actually have to think pretty carefully how to do everything and exactly what kind of chip you have
[00:26:18] and how the memory works and the communication works and so forth are actually pretty big factors and it actually yeah maybe one of these days the AI itself will be good enough to reason through that today. It's not quite good enough. I don't know if you guys are having this experience with the interface, but I find myself even on my desktop and certainly on my mobile phone, going immediately into voice chat
[00:26:43] mode and telling it, "Nope, stop." Uh, that wasn't my question. This is my question. Nope. Uh, let's say that again in shorter bullet points. Nope, I want to focus on this. It's so quick now. Last year was unusable. It was too slow. And now it like stops. Okay. And then you sell it. I would like It's what I want to go to. I don't want to type. I want to use voice. And then concurrently, I'm watching the text as
[00:27:05] it's being written on the page and I have another window open and I'm doing Google searches or second queries to an LLM or writing a Google doc or a notion page or typing something. So, it's almost like that scene in um Minority Report where he has the gloves or in Bladeunner where he's, you know, in his apartment saying, "Zoom in, zoom in." Closer to the left, to the right. And there's something about these language
[00:27:29] models and their ability to the response time which was always something you focused on response time the is there like a response time thing where it actually is worth doing voice and where it wasn't previously everything is getting better and faster and so forth you know smaller models are more capable there are better ways to do inference on them that are faster you can also stack them like you know this is like Nico's
[00:27:54] company 11 labs it's an exceptional TTS SSD stack like there's I mean there are other options. Whisper is really good at certain things, but those this is where I I kind of believe you're going to get this like compartmentalization where there'll be certain foundational models for certain specific things. You stack them together. You kind of deal with the latency and it's like pretty good because they're so good. Like Whisper
[00:28:18] and 11 for those speech examples that you're talking about are kickass. I mean, they're exceptional. Well, wait till you turn on your camera and it sees your reaction to what it's saying and you go and before you even say that you don't want it or you put your finger up, it's pauses. Oh, did you want something else? Oh, I see you're not happy with that result. You know, it's going to get really weird. It's a
[00:28:40] funny thing, but we have the, you know, we have the big open shared offices, so during work, I can't really use voice mode too much. I usually use it on the drive. The drive is incredible. Yeah. I don't feel like I could. I mean, I would get its output in my headphones, but if I want to speak to it, then everybody's listening to me. So, it's weird. I just think that would be socially awkward, but I should I should do that. In my car
[00:29:04] ride, I do chat to the AI, but then it's like audio in, audio out. But I feel like I honestly maybe it's a good argument for a private office. I should spend more time like you guys are. You could talk to your manager. They might get one. I like being out in the I like with everybody. Uh, but I do think that there's this AI use case that I'm missing which I should probably figure out how to try more often. If
[00:29:30] people want to try your new product, is there a website they can visit or something or special code or go check? I mean, honestly, there's a dedicated Gemini app. If you're using Gemini, just like you're going through the Google navigation from your search, just get the download the actual Gemini app. It's kickass. It really is the best models. I think it is. You should use 2.5 Pro. 2.5 Pro. Pay the It's It's a You got to pay,
[00:29:54] right? Uh yeah, you got a few query, you got a few prompts for free, but uh you know, if you do it a bunch, you need to make all these like 20 bucks a month. You got a vision for like making it free and throwing some ads on the side. Yeah. One step down in hardware cost, the whole thing will be free. Well, okay. It's free today without ads on the side. You just got a certain number of the top model. I think we're likely are going to
[00:30:14] have always now like sort of top models that we can't supply infinitely to everyone right off the bat. But, you know, wait 3 months and then the next generation. Seems to me like if I'm asking all these queries, you know, just having a little on the sidebar of things I might be a running list that changes in real time of things I might be interested in. All for, you know, really good AI advertising. I just um
[00:30:38] uh I don't think we're going to like necessarily our latest and greatest models which are you know take a lot of computation. I don't think we're going to just be free to everybody right off the bat. But as we go to the next generation you know it's like every time we've gone forward a generation then the sort of uh the new free tier is usually as good as the previous pro tier uh and sometimes better. All right, give it up
[00:31:04] for Sergey Brit. Thank you. [Applause] Okay, thanks everybody for watching that amazing interview with Sergey Brent and thanks Sergey for joining us in Miami. If you want to come to our next event, it's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles, fourth year for All-In Summit. Go to all-in.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team, which won the
[00:31:33] race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their new crypto exchange here in the US. If you love Allin, go check them out. And a special thanks to our friends at Circle. They're the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar redeemable one for one for USD. It's
[00:32:00] built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap between the digital economy and outdated financial reality. Go check out USDC for all your stable coin needs. And special thanks to my friends including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. We'll let your winners ride.
[00:32:29] [Music] And it said we open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you queen of quinoa. [Music] Besties are gone. That is my dog taking notice your driveways. Oh man. My dasher will meet up. We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy because they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. We need to get Murky's I'm going all