[00:30:14] have always now like sort of top models that we can't supply infinitely to everyone right off the bat. But, you know, wait 3 months and then the next generation. Seems to me like if I'm asking all these queries, you know, just having a little on the sidebar of things I might be a running list that changes in real time of things I might be interested in. All for, you know, really good AI advertising. I just um
[00:30:38] uh I don't think we're going to like necessarily our latest and greatest models which are you know take a lot of computation. I don't think we're going to just be free to everybody right off the bat. But as we go to the next generation you know it's like every time we've gone forward a generation then the sort of uh the new free tier is usually as good as the previous pro tier uh and sometimes better. All right, give it up
[00:31:04] for Sergey Brit. Thank you. [Applause] Okay, thanks everybody for watching that amazing interview with Sergey Brent and thanks Sergey for joining us in Miami. If you want to come to our next event, it's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles, fourth year for All-In Summit. Go to all-in.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team, which won the
[00:31:33] race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their new crypto exchange here in the US. If you love Allin, go check them out. And a special thanks to our friends at Circle. They're the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar redeemable one for one for USD. It's
[00:32:00] built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap between the digital economy and outdated financial reality. Go check out USDC for all your stable coin needs. And special thanks to my friends including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. We'll let your winners ride.
[00:32:29] [Music] And it said we open source it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you queen of quinoa. [Music] Besties are gone. That is my dog taking notice your driveways. Oh man. My dasher will meet up. We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy because they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. We need to get Murky's I'm going all
[00:33:14] [Music] in. I'm going all in.