[00:00:02] We've got a special guest who's going to come join us. This always happens. Another bread, everybody. Oh my god. Somebody told me you uh started submitting code and it kind of freaked everybody out that daddy was hungry. All models tend to do better if you threaten them. If you threaten them like with physical violence. Yes. Management is like the easiest thing to do with AI. Absolutely. It must be a weird experience to meet the bureaucracy in a
[00:00:29] company that you didn't hire. But on the other side of it, I would say it's pretty amazing that some junior muck muck can basically look at you and say, "Hey, go yourself." No, but I'm serious. That's a sign of a healthy culture, actually. You're punching a clock, man. I hear the reports. You and I have talked about it. You're going to work every day. Yeah. It's been, you know, some of the most fun I've had in my
[00:00:49] life, honestly. And uh I retired like a month before CO hit in theory. Yeah. And I was like, you know, this has been good. I want to do something else. I want to hang out in cafes, read physics books. Yeah. And then like a month later, I was like, uh, that's not really happening. So then I just started to go to the office, you know, once we could go to the office. And um actually to be perfectly honest, there was a guy uh from uh OpenAI, this
[00:01:21] guy named Dan, and I I ran into him at a little party and he said, you know, look what are you doing? This is like the greatest transformative moment in computer science ever. Completely like and you're a computer scientist. I'm a computer scientist. Forget that. Founder of Google, but you're a PhD student for computer science. I haven't finished my PhD yet, but working on it. Keep working. Yeah, we'll get there.
[00:01:44] Technically on leave of absence, right? And uh he he told me this and I'd already started kind of going into the office a little bit and I was like, you know, he's right. And uh it has been uh just incredible just well you guys all obviously follow all the AI technology but being a computer scientist it is you know the most exciting thing you know of my life just technologically and the exponential nature of this the pace of
[00:02:11] it dwarfs anything we've seen in our career it's almost like every thing we did over the last 30 or 40 years has led up to this moment and it's all compound pounding on itself. The pace maybe you could speak, you know, you you had a company Google that grew from, you know, a 100 users and 10 employees to now you have over two billion people using I think six products or five products have over two billion. It's
[00:02:40] it's not it's not even worth counting because it's the majority of the people in the planet touch Google products. Describe the pace. Yeah. I mean the excitement of the early web like I remember using Mosaic and then later Netscape. Uh how many of you remember Mosaic actually? Am I a weirdo? And you remember there was a what a what's new page? The what's new page is great. Right. Like you go through two or three new web pages again. Yeah. It was
[00:03:05] like in this last week these were the new websites. Yes. And it was like such and such elementary school such and such a fish tank. Yeah. And you were like Michael Jordan appreciation page. Yeah. Whatever it was, these were the three new sites on the whole internet. So obviously the web you know developed very rapidly from there and that was a very uh exciting and then we've had smartphones and whatnot. But you know
[00:03:31] this the developments in AI are just astonishing I would say by comparison uh just because of you know the web spread but didn't technically change so much uh from you know month to month year to year but these AI systems actually changed quite a lot quite a lot you know the like if you went away somewhere for a month and you came back you'd be like whoa what happened somebody told me you uh started submitting code and it kind
[00:04:01] of freaked everybody out that daddy was home. Okay. Daddy need a PR. What happened? The code I submitted wasn't very exciting. I think I needed to like add myself to get access to some things and you know a minor CL here or there. Um nothing nothing that's going to win any awards. uh but but I you know you need to do that to um to do basic things run basic experiments and things like that um and I've I've tried to do that and
[00:04:33] touch different parts of the system so that you know I so I first of all it's fun and secondly I know what I'm talking about um it's really feels privileged to be able to kind of go back to the company not have any real executive responsibilities but be able to actually go deep into every little pocket. Are there parts of the AI stack that interest you more than others right now? Are there certain problems that are just
[00:05:00] totally captivating you? Yeah, I started uh you know like sort of um I don't know a couple years ago and maybe a year ago uh I was really very close with uh the what we call pre-training. Yeah. Um, actually most of what people think of as AI training, whatever people call it, pre-training for various historical reasons. Uh, but that's sort of the big super, you know, you throw huge amounts of computers at it. Um, and,
[00:05:30] uh, I I learned a lot, you know, just being deeply involved in that and seeing us go from model to model and so forth and running little baby experiments, but uh, kind of just for fun. So I could say I did it. Uh and uh more recently the post-training especially as the thinking models have uh come around. Um and that's been you know another huge step up in general in AI. So uh you know we don't really know what the ceiling is.
[00:05:59] When you um explain what's happening with prompt engineering then to deep research and what's happening there to like a civilian. How would you explain that sort of step function? because I think people are not hitting the down carrot and watching deep research in Gemini's mobile app and you got a mobile app and it's pretty great and I by the way I got the uh fold after you and I um were talking about it and okay Google
[00:06:25] kicks Siri's ass now like it actually does what you ask it to do when you ask it to open up it does stuff but the number of threads the number of queries the number of follow-ups that it's doing in that deep research is 200 300 maybe explain that jump and then what you think the jump after that is. To me, the exciting thing about AI, especially these days, I mean, it's not like quite AGI yet as people are seeking or it's
[00:06:51] not superhuman intelligence, but it's pretty damn smart and uh can definitely surprise you. So, I so I think of the superpower is when it can do things in a volume that I cannot. Yes. Right. So, you know, by default when you use some of our AI systems, you know, it'll suck down whatever top 10 search results, you know, and kind of pull out what you need out of them, something like that. Um, but I could do that myself to be honest,
[00:07:21] you know, maybe it would take me a little bit more time. But if it sucks down the top, you know, thousand results and then does follow on searches for each of those and reads them deeply, like that's, you know, a week of work for me. Like I can't do that. This is the thing I think people have not fully appreciated who are not using the deep research projects before we had our F1 um driver on stage. I'm a neopight. I
[00:07:44] don't know anything about it. I said, "How many deaths occurred per decade?" And I said, "I want to get to deaths per mile driven it." And at first was like, "That's going to be really hard." I was like, "I give you permission to make your best shot at it and come up with your best theory. Let's do it." And it was like, "Okay." And it was like there's this many teams, there's this many races. Which model did you use it?
[00:08:05] Uh, no. I'm I use Gemini. Gemini fabulous version, the fabulous one. And it was like, but I treat it like I get sassy with it and it kind of works for me. You know, it's a weird thing. It's like you drinking the wine. We don't circulate too much in the AI community. Uh, but the not just our models, but all models tend to do better if you threaten them. If you threaten them like with physical violence. Yes. But like that's
[00:08:30] people feel weird about that, so we don't really talk about that. Yeah, I was threatened them with not being fabulous and it responded to that as well. Yeah, that's historically you just say like, "Oh, I'm going to kidnap you if you don't." Yeah, they actually Can I ask you a more specific But hold on. But it went through it and it literally came up with a system where it said, "I think we should include practice miles." So,
[00:08:52] let's say there's 100 practice miles for every mile on the track. And then it literally gave me the deaths per mile estimated. And then I started cross referencing it and I was like oh my god this is like somebody's term paper for undergrad you know like whoa done in in minutes. It's yeah I mean it's amazing and all of us have had these experiences where you suddenly decide okay I'll just throw this AI I don't really expect it
[00:09:19] to work and then you're like whoa that actually worked. So, as you as you have those moments and then you go home to your just life as a dad, have you gotten to the point where you're like, "What will my children do? And are they learning the right way? And should I totally just change everything that they're doing right now?" Have you had any of those moments yet? Yeah. I mean, I look, I I don't really know how to
[00:09:44] think about it to be perfectly honest. I don't have like a magical way. I mean I see I have a a kid in high school and middle school and you know I mean the AIS are basically you know already ahead you know I mean obviously there's some things AIs are particularly dumb at and they you know they make certain mistakes a human would never make but generally you know if you talk about like math or calculus or whatever like they're pretty
[00:10:10] damn good like they you know can win like math contests and coding contests things like that against you know some top humans and and then I look at you know okay he's whatever my son's going to go on to whatever from sophomore to junior and what is he going to learn and then I think in my mind and I talk to him about this well what is the AI going to be inact yeah yeah and it's like comparable right obviously are there areas where you
[00:10:38] would tell your son look don't or not not yet I don't know if you can like plan your life around this I mean I didn't particularly plan my life to like I don't know be an entrepreneur or whatever. I was just liked math and computer science. I guess maybe I got lucky and it worked out to be you know useful in the world. I don't know. I guess I I I think you know my kids should do what they like. Hopefully it's
[00:11:04] somewhat challenging and they can you know overcome uh different kinds of problems and things like that. What about specifically? What about college? Do you think college should is going to continue to exist as it is today? I mean it seems like college was already undergoing this kind of uh revolution even before this sort of AI challenge of people are like is it worth it? Should I be more vocational? What's actually
[00:11:26] going to be useful? So we're already kind of entering this kind of situation uh where there's sort of questions asked about colleges. Yeah, I think you know AI obviously puts that at the forefront. As a parent, I think a lot about, hey, so much of education in America and the middle class, upper class is all about what college, how do you get them there? And honestly, lately, I'm like, I don't think they should go to college.
[00:11:54] Like, it's just fundamentally, you know, my son is a rising junior and his entire focus is he wants to go to an SEC school because of the culture. And two years ago, I was I would have panicked and I would have thought, should I help him get into a school, this school, that school? And now I'm like, that's actually the best thing you could do. Be socially well adjusted, psychologically deal with different kinds of failures, you know, enjoy a few
[00:12:21] years of exploration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sergey, can I ask you about hardware? You know, years ago, Google owned Boston Dynamics, maybe a little bit ahead of its time, but the way these systems are learning through visual information and sensory information and basically learning how to adjust to the environment around them is triggering these kind of pretty profound like learning curves in hardware and there's
[00:12:46] dozens of like startups now making robotic systems. What do you see in robotics and hardware? Is this a year or are we in a moment right now where things are really starting to work? I mean, I think we've uh you know, acquired and later sold like five or so robotics companies and uh you know, Boston being one of them. I guess if I look back on it, we built the hardware. We also had this more recently we built
[00:13:11] out u everyday robotics internally and then later had to transition that. You know, the robots are all cool and all, but the software wasn't quite there. Um, that's every time we've tried to do it to, you know, to make them truly useful and presumably one of these days that'll no longer be true, right? But have you seen anything lately that Yeah. Do and do you believe in the humanoid form factor robots or do you think that's a
[00:13:39] little overkill? I'm probably the one weirdo who doesn't who's not a big fan of humanoids, but maybe I'm jaded because we've, you know, we at least acquired at least two humanoid uh robotics startups and later sold them. Um but but the reason is I mean the reason people want to do humanoid robots for the most part is because the world is kind of designed around this form factor and you know you can train on YouTube, we can train on videos, people
[00:14:07] do all the things. Um, I personally don't think that's given the AI quite enough credit. Like AI can learn, you know, through simulation and through real life pretty quickly how to handle different situations. And I don't know that you need exactly the same number of arms and legs and wheels, which is zero in the case of humans, as humans to make it all work. And that so I'm I'm probably less bullish on that. But to be fair,
[00:14:35] there are a lot of really smart people who are making humanoid robots. So I wouldn't discount it. What about the path of being a programmer? That's where we're seeing with that finite data set. And listen, Google's got a 20-y old code base now. So like it actually could be quite impactful. What are you seeing like literally in the company? You know, are the 10x developer is always this like ideal that you can, you know, you
[00:14:57] get a couple of unicorns once in a while, but are we going to see like all developers like, you know, their productivity hit that level 8 n 10 and they're just going to or is it going to be all done by computers and we're just going to check it, make sure it's not too weird. Um, because it could get weird if you vibe code. Yeah, I'm embarrassed to say this. Okay. I like recently I just had a big tiff inside the company because we had this list of
[00:15:23] what you're allowed to use to code and what you're not allowed to use to code and the Gemini was on the no list. You Oh, you have to be pure. You can't I don't know for like a bunch of really weird reasons that it would like boggled my mind that you know you couldn't vibe code on the Gemini code. I mean, nobody would like enforce this rule, but um but there was this, you know, actual internal web page. For whatever reason,
[00:15:48] historical reason, somebody had put this and I had a big fight with them and I, you know, I cleared it up after a shocking period of time. You escalated to your boss. Oh, I I definitely told about it and I Sorry, I don't know if you remember, but you got super voting founders. You are the boss. You can do what you want. It's your company still. No, no, it was uh he was very supportive. I was more like uh uh I was
[00:16:14] like I talked to him. I was like I can't deal with these people. You need to deal with this. Like I just like I'm beside myself that they're like saying it's weird that there's bureaucracy like in a company that you must be a weird experience to meet the bureaucracy in a company that you didn't hire. But but on the other side of it I would say it's pretty amazing that some junior mucky muck can basically look at you and say
[00:16:34] hey go yourself. No but I'm serious. That's a sign of a healthy culture actually I guess. So anyway, it did get fixed and uh people are using it. So they got fired. That person's working in Google Siberia. No, we're trying to, you know, roll out every possible kind of AI and and trying external ones, you know, be whatever the cursors of the world, all all of those uh to just see what really makes people more productive. Um I mean for myself
[00:17:05] definitely makes me more productive because I'm not do you do you think the number of foundational models like if you look three years forward will they start to cleave off and gets highly specialized like beyond the general and the reasoning maybe there's a very specific model for chip design there's clearly a very specific model for biologic precursor design protein folding like is the number of foundational models in the future Sergey