[00:41:02] in 28. So you're going to see >> that's going to win you votes for sure. Yeah. >> No, when I went on stage the first thing I did was I was like she's wrong and that's not true. And in fact everything tells us all the data up until now that there will be more jobs and more to do. And I said the people in this room will be making more money in the next four years and 5 years than less money. There will be more work to be done, more
[00:41:27] judgment, more taste to be imposed. And so I have a real issue with this narrative because I think it's just fundamentally wrong. And it does not come from a place of datadriven fact. It comes from a decision that the political calculus is the doomerism is a way to fment distrust and displeasure and then to use that at the polls. And I understand that as a political tactic, but I think it's important to call it up. This is why I
[00:41:54] say we're in the AI wars. I mean, this is the actual war. There won't be a robot war. It's this battle right now about who's actually going to have the technology and the progress and who's not. >> Well, who's going to benefit from Freeberg? who's going to benefit from it, right? Rich people or poor people, middle class. People don't know what open source is. No one knows what an open weight model means. No one
[00:42:15] understands any of this stuff. And they're looking at the rich guys at the White House. And I agree with you, Jal. I think the public perception and the public narrative on this thing is I don't get it. I see a bunch of wealthy people kind of hanging out with the president at lunch making a bunch of decisions that I don't have a voice around. I don't even know what's going on. I don't even know what they're doing. And then I turn on the news. I
[00:42:35] turn on the TV, I look at my Instagram, and everything's about the end of tomorrow. And so I'm all about shutting it down. No problem. This is why I think it's important to have the conversation that we're having about why does open source and openweight AI benefit everyone because there's no company that's charging you a toll for this digital technology. It's just like the internet. We maintained an open internet. There was a huge fight. People
[00:43:01] forget the fight that we had for the internet. When the internet was first starting out, there were all these efforts to privatize the internet, to create gatekeepers. There were these efforts by all the telos that they were going to be the gatekeeper to the internet and charge you different amounts of money to access different websites. You weren't going to a be able to just go to Yahoo or AOL if you didn't
[00:43:20] pay a fee to your telco to be allowed to access Yahoo or AOL. And we made it illegal and we made it an open internet. And I think the same is happening right now with AI. People don't see the fight, the war that's going on, but there is a contingent of people that, to Chimath's point, recognize the political value of regulatory control and capture, and they are fighting to create gates and to create systems of control and ultimately
[00:43:46] new power. like you solve the whole fighting we are fighting the other side is actually fighting for openness with AI >> and it's well organized like it I'm like when you go to these places and you realize that these extremely successful people are being deployed with very tightly scripted talking points that all point to dumerism you realize that this is like extremely designed and then you know the rest of us who are
[00:44:12] working in this arena and actually can see that there are more positive benefits it's a negative and that there are more people making more money than before up and down the income spectrum. We are not as organized as they are. That's what I will say for sure. And I think that the positive message of super intelligence and the economic upside is not nearly as well trafficked as the downside doomer message because that
[00:44:34] goes from top to bottom in an extremely organized repetitive way. And that's why Jason the flight attendant has the talking point. So they are winning. >> And by the way, the talking point was given to them by Daario. The talking point was given to them by Elon when he said, you're not going to need to have a job. Those talking points were handed out. Now they're being reversed. Still work to be done. I think next time, best
[00:44:56] piece of advice, save three seats, Sachs. Bring a Salon. Bring somebody representing like teachers. Bring somebody representing health care. Bring somebody thoughtful non business person who could represent other constituents in this. save a seat at the table for people who, you know, the every man and woman of America can relate to who says, "Hey, yeah, this maybe this will help my kid, you know, when I get a personal
[00:45:20] tutor for them." Like Salon would be the perfect example of Khan Academy. Sax, you got any final thoughts here? >> Well, I mean, I kind I kind of wanted to broaden out this conversation to the economy as a whole because I do think that the dumerism is affecting people's perception of the economy. >> Yeah, that's why I'm bringing it up. Yeah. >> Yeah. And I think that actually there's been a tremendous amount of economic
[00:45:39] data in just the last week or two showing that the economy is much stronger than people are giving it credit for. I mean, yes, I know that diesel prices are too high and rates are high, but those are the only two variables that you ever hear about. Let's look at some of the other numbers that have just come out because I think it's pretty extraordinary. So, first of all, Q2 GDP was revised up to 2.2% 2% up from 1.5%. So that's basically 50%
[00:46:06] increase. Economists had expected no revision. Q1 was also revised up to 2.5% from 2.1%. And if you look at the Q3 growth, it's tracking well above that. The Atlanta Fed GDP now is showing around 3.7% as of late last week. August payrolls just came out plus 162,000. The consensus was only 55,000. which is a beat of about 107,000 jobs. June and July were also revised up by combined 55,000. So unemployment is still near
[00:46:39] record lows at 4.1% even though labor participation rose.2% to 61.6%. So good news on the jobs front, good news on the GDP front. The economy is running hot. And then there was also some good news on inflation. We saw that core PCE just came in at 3.0% 0% versus 3.3% expected. So inflation is still a bit too high, but actually it is cooling and beating expectations. And then finally, you look at manufacturing. We're seeing a huge
[00:47:12] wave of re-industrialization in this country. A couple of the measures are the Chicago PMI and then ISM manufacturing. They both are well into expansion territory and beating forecasts. Just one last point, let's talk about poverty for a second because I want to address the idea that this is just a K-shaped recovery. So, if you look at US household income is now at record high. The median household income in 2025 is almost $90,000.
[00:47:45] And after tax household income is growing again in the second Trump term. It's averaged 3.1% a year in Trump 47. It was 3.9% in Trump 45 and it was minus 1.2% in Biden's term as a 4-year average. So we're seeing that after tax household incomes have risen by 3.1% just in 2025. And the poverty rate in the US has fallen to its lowest level in history, 10.2%. So, you know, the poverty rate, the child poverty rate,
[00:48:20] these are all at historic lows. The average households um real income after inflation, after taxes is increasing for the first time in years. So, there is a lot of strong economic data out there. And I I think that this is why if you know if I was to guess, I actually think that the Republicans are going to do better in the midterms than some of these polls are predicting because I think the press around the economy has
[00:48:44] been very negative. But I think people are starting to feel that the economy is accelerating. And that was actually a headline in the Wall Street Journal just the last couple of days that the economy is accelerating right now. So again, you've got this AI boom or SI boom. You've got the the infrastructure buildout that again the Wall Street Journal said is bigger than the railroads, the canals, and uh the electric grid combined. And all these
[00:49:07] things are basically fueling strong growth in the economy. And again, I would just dispute the K-shaped narrative because the poor are benefiting and the average household are benefiting as well. >> They don't feel that way, but uh I guess you >> I get that the sentiment I I agree with you. The sentiment has not caught up with the economic reality, but I think it will. >> We've got a a rate problem in the last
[00:49:31] 30 days or so, right? We've seen short-term rates on treasuries climb by 60 basis points. That's a pretty consequential climb. I think we haven't seen a short-term yield this high since going back to 2002. And so this massive increase in rates is obviously going to impact people's ability to refinance their home, buy a new car, purchase things on credit, and that's the majority of Americans fall under that umbrella. And I think there's also kind
[00:49:58] of an economic challenge ahead with the rate problem. And I I would argue, as I always do, that the rate problem is fundamentally rooted in the federal government and the insane spending. And if you look at the impact that this rate is going to have on banks, I worked with Chat GPT, my my trusted analyst, my financial analyst in my office here to help kind of figure out what's the impact of these rates actually going to
[00:50:21] be on banks and what the impairment would be. There's 4,295 banks that have positive equity that report FTIC their balance sheets every month. Based on the actual reported balance sheet of these banks, about 95 banks are going to see an impairment of more than 20% of their equity in the last 30 days or so. And those reports start to come out on October 30th. So, the thing I worry a lot about is on October 30th, we're
[00:50:48] going to kind of see all these financial reports coming out from all the banks, all the lending institutions, and there's about 95 of them that are going to say, "Hey, we've got more than 20% impairment charge on our equity." That's going to be a massive kind of shock. And then what are the implications of that? And that's where we're going to start to wake up to the fact that the rate problem isn't just a purchasing problem
[00:51:07] for consumers, but it may actually have a bit of a rippling effect here in the economy starting with the financial institutions. So they publish their next monthly reports on the September 30th ending period on October 30th. And unfortunately, it coincides right with the election cycle. So there's going to be all this noise about, hey, how bad are things looking while we're trying to go through this election. So Sax, I
[00:51:27] don't know like you know if there's any view on how we fix this rate problem, but it's pretty nasty and it's gonna have to I I conceded it up front that we have two issues in the economy that are negative. We have diesel prices and rates. But then I went on to lay out the case for why there's so much other positive economic news that's not really being covered. Look, if you compare rates to the nominal growth rate of the
[00:51:49] economy, and those two things are highly correlated over time, you can see the economy is running really hot right now. And that is part of the reason why rates are going up is because you have to compensate people for a a real return. And you know, you've got inflation in the threes and then you've got GDP growth at 3.7%. Then rates are going to be high as well. Look, I think this all comes back to price of diesel because that obviously
[00:52:13] has a lot to do with not just people's price at the pump, but also diesel is an industrial input and the transportation costs get baked into all these goods. I think if we can just solve that problem, then gas prices come down, inflation comes down, we can get rate cuts on that basis. So I think that's the last piece here. I think the economy is already doing again very well, 2.5% in Q2, 3.7 in Q3, but if we just get that last
[00:52:40] piece, I'm not saying there's not a little bit of work to do there, I think the economy will take off like a rocket. >> Yeah, I think the conditions are right. You're right. I think the federal spending problem is still persisting, though. It's almost like pouring acid on everything. Like you've got all this great stuff growing and then you just have all this federal spending which as you and I both know is like negative
[00:52:58] productivity spending and it's uh creating fake employment and it's doing all sorts of bad things. But man, if we don't get spending, you know, as Scott Besson has talked about to 3% deficit as a percent of GDP, these rates are only going to get worse and that could basically just shoot us in the foot. >> You know, we we all agree about spending as a as a long-term problem and and it's a bipartisan problem. and we have to fix
[00:53:21] it. I would just say that look, I would say about 6 months ago, people said that if we get a spike in gas prices, we're going to have 1970s style stackflation. That has not happened. Instead, we're seeing a super hot economy. And yet, gas prices are a little high. But, by the way, during the Obama presidency, we had over 300 days of Brent crude over $100 a barrel. So people forget that we've had the economy do well over large stretches
[00:53:48] of time with gas prices at these levels. It's just the diesel prices are a little bit high and that has to do with refineries. Frankly, it'd be good if Zolinsky stopped hitting Russian refineries. That hasn't helped the the problem. But look, so we just have that one that one issue and I think we can resolve it. There was a report this week, I think it was in the Guardian, which is not a proTrump publication,
[00:54:13] saying that more oil got out of Hormuz this week than since the beginning of the war. So, I think we need to kind of wrap up that issue. Gas prices come down and then I think that means inflation will come down. It's already coming down more than expected, but then we can get a rate cut. I think actually right now no one's pricing in the potential for rate cuts here. It's all rate increases. So, you know, if we could get some
[00:54:37] relief there, get rate cuts, I mean, again, the economy is going to rocket even more. >> We have two tricky auctions that are coming up and I think Treasury will be able to navigate those well, just because I think Scott has such a good handle on how to do this and frankly how to do the job. But once we get past those two auctions, I'm leaning more in the Sax camp. I kind of tend to agree with you. There's going to be some growing
[00:55:05] evidence about what to do based on what happens from Europe as well. I don't know if you guys have been tracking this, but France is going through a really complicated budget negotiation right now. And they're about to shrink the budget by probably 5075 billion, which you can imagine in France that's like ground zero for it's a oneway ratchet to GDP going through the roof. And so when the French start to make
[00:55:29] guts and it's what Freeberg has been saying, it's why were they forced to capitulate? because of long rates. So that's happened. Andy Burnham, who you know bumbled his way into the prime ministership of the UK, presented his policy platform yesterday for an hour. It's truly insane what he's saying. This is an extremely muscular form of socialism that he intends to impose on the United Kingdom and then to reemerge back into Europe.
[00:56:00] And so he's going to try to undo Brexit. He's going to try to double and triple the size of government. Not a mention of growth. Like how do you grow the private economy? Insane. So what you're going to see from both of those two places over the next year is I think going to tell us what we're going to have to do in the United States. But I tend to think that we're going to see a little bit more growth than that is expected. I tend to think
[00:56:29] we're going to probably see a little bit more revision. And I think that people are sleeping on the fact that we are not nearly as dependent on oil the way that we used to be. And so even though we used to breathlessly look at Brent crude and WTI and all this stuff, I don't think it matters nearly as much as it used to. And I think that's crazy because like the paradigm of rates and the paradigm of currencies and the petro
[00:56:48] dollar, all these intermingled things that used to drive the global economy are now getting rewired in ways that I don't think anybody fully understands. And that's very good for the United States. So I think we have like the one problem is we we do have gas prices at the pump are up 50% since the Iran war started >> and that hurts the everyday consumer significantly. It may not drive the the GDP numbers down super aggressively
[00:57:14] because of the industrial but the the actual cost of living for the average person. >> But can I can I say something? >> Yeah. >> I I've looked at those numbers the prices and they're terrible and I feel bad for people that have to bear that cost. But I think it's also important to say that is not an input issue. That is a refining issue. For decades and decades, we turned off the refining infrastructure that the United States