[00:27:36] joked. >> Oh, really? >> Yeah. So, that's kind of funny. Yeah. >> Did you invite him on the pod? I forgot to invite him on the pod, but he's welcome. >> You have his phone number and are you going to invite him on the pod? The world wants to know >> if you want me to. But look, I think it's good that he talked to the president and had dinner with the president. I think the president should talk to all the major players in the
[00:27:54] space. He should hear the full spectrum of views and I trust the president's going to, you know, arrive at the right policy and solution. So, I think it's good for him to hear Daario. I mean, look, I think >> any insight into what happened at that dinner. What was President Trump's view of Daario? He said he's an interesting guy. There were some interesting quotes. And he he dragged him from the back of the group in the presser and threw him
[00:28:16] out front. I saw you were right behind him. Zuck was right behind him. You guys had a little chuckle at the president >> pushing him forward to >> No, we weren't. We actually I forgot exactly what No, no one was making fun of Daria. Just implying that conversations going on grabbed him from the back and said, "You have to speak." That I think that was kind of a a cute moment. It was an affectionate I saw it as an affectionate moment that he wanted
[00:28:40] Daario to be part of the group and speak on behalf of the group. I saw it as the opposite. Yeah. >> Yeah. He gave him a pat on the back. And and look, I think >> listen, Dario is a very special person. I didn't, you know, fully appreciate it till we're all in that room together. There's obviously a wide spectrum of views in that room. There's different levels. >> Spectrum is a good word. Spectrum. >> There's there's an autism spectrum.
[00:29:04] There's a there's a spectrum of autism spectrum in that way. >> You feel you felt very comfortable, Sax. >> Well, I mean, you guys call me the Rainman, but um I mean, >> Rainman lighting is really functional. >> I don't mean this as an insult, but you know, Daria is sort of the Dustin Hoffman in that room. And then Tom Brown's like the Tom Cruz character who's trying to like translate him. They weren't wearing the same suit or
[00:29:24] anything, but um China, Russia, meet my mutants. Okay, I'm forming like the X-Men here. Okay, these are brainiacs. They're a little bit weird on the margins, but they're getting done for America. >> Shimoth, you certainly uh must have had an an interesting uh time there. >> Tell us a little bit more of the the palace intrigue. What was President Trump's vibe? He seemed he was incredibly engaged and excited. And I
[00:29:50] just want to say, listen, you don't have to be a fan of President Trump or a Republican to appreciate what happened here. and compare it to when Biden excluded Elon from the EV summit. You you need to as the president of the United States be bipartisan and include everybody in these things. We're all part of the same team. It's called team America. And I thought this was a great juxtaposition of that. You had a lot of
[00:30:13] people who were extremely critical of the administration who were there to make America stronger, to make America win the AI race, the super intelligence race. Most people have said this at this point, so this is sort of beating a dead horse, but he is a generational political athlete. I mean, I don't think we've seen anybody like him. And so, he's extremely comfortable around all kinds of people with all kinds of
[00:30:35] differing views, and he's conscientious. And so, when he notices things are not right, he sets them right. He talks to as many people. And I think you have to be really impressed with that. like this is a an incredible pattern that I hope outlives him which is this idea that when you have very complicated problems when you use industry to be a sounding board and then you sit with industry in real time and then you craft these
[00:31:01] accords in real time and when that industry represents the entire political spectrum as you said Jason some who are with you and some who are against you and some who are in the middle that is the right way to govern in my opinion because you have the best chance of doing something that's sustainable and that's realistic and that comes back to this point that is getting lost which is whoever wins super intelligence wins and
[00:31:26] I think if we just keep that in mind this is the pattern that hopefully outlives the president which is that whenever you run into any other thorny issue and I would say this to whoever is going to be president 28 and beyond Democrat Republican it doesn't matter get the smartest people from that industry in a room. Make sure that that's filled with both people that support you as well as may not necessarily support you and then
[00:31:52] hash it out in the room and force a set of realistic principles that everybody can then build a business around. That is very smart politics and governance. I just wanted to go back to something you said before because I was having this conversation with Phil Deutsch. This is about the data center thing. He made this point to me which I think is really important. When you look at the impact that the Iran war had on the
[00:32:18] price of oil, the most interesting takeaway was actually how little the price of oil moved during all of these blockages in norm because what really happened was there was a lot of supply and generation shifting that occurred. Right? we were able to shape in real time Jason how to generate energy and the real takeaway from my perspective is that the generation of electrons is actually the critical thing not necessarily the
[00:32:47] generation of energy as we've classically thought about it now why that's important is the data center now becomes the critical symbol of national security because the ability to generate electrons and then the ability to make sure that we can compute the resources that we need to run our economy is going to start from those things and so domestic energy production I think also is this hugely important thing that is
[00:33:12] going to move from a domestic policy issue to a national security issue and that's why I think the data center thing and and sort of why I I disagree with Freeberg I understand where he's coming from because this is why the data center will get so much scrutiny but I also think the opposite will happen which is more the Sachs idea of the free market because it is so critical similar to how we responded after the Persian Gulf for
[00:33:36] and how we responded after the gribble war on terror. What do we do? We doubled and tripled down on n gas and domestic oil production. Similarly, I think the domestic production of electrons becomes so critical because the the data center becomes this national security infrastructure. That's so important. >> Yeah. There was this great video from years ago where Milton Freriedman was at a law school and he was asked a question by this kid about
[00:34:03] when do we have a responsibility to act to save someone's life and can the government mandate that I do that and doesn't that take away my freedom in a free society? And the way the kid asked it, Milton Friedman responded by saying, "Hey, you started out talking about your responsibility in society." And by the end of it, you were telling me about what government needs to do. And he's like, I would argue that those two
[00:34:23] things are not the same. And that the point you should take note of is that you don't need government to solve your problems when society is giving you a clear signal of what the right and wrong thing is to do. that people collectively can and will solve their problems, take their actions, choose the right path, do the right things, and businesses can and will respond accordingly when the market is telling them something. When society
[00:34:49] is telling them something, they don't need the government to be responsible for executing the actions and taking regulation onto its shoulders for them. And I think we saw that this week with Nvidia's launch and OpenAI was very declarative about how they're being more precautionary before they release models. But this morning, Google also launched Synth ID. And Synth ID is a system for watermarking proteins that
[00:35:14] are produced with AI. So the sequence, the DNA sequence that codes for the protein will actually now have a watermark in it. And it's being broadly adopted. And the protein itself, the three-dimensional construct of the protein will actually have an embedded watermark in it as well. This is actually a pretty amazing technology that Google developed uh for creating watermarking and defense systems in AI bio. And I think we are starting to see
[00:35:38] the market respond actively to what society is saying and not need these government people to come in and take over and in the process put everything at risk. >> By the way, I saw that clip. It was going viral as well. I thought it was the young I don't know why I watched it. Yeah, >> he was a law school kid. The young guy was articulate. Milton Friedman was unbelievably articulate as always. But Jal, what was what was your view? I'm
[00:36:04] curious what's your view just seeing it happen real time. What were you thinking? >> Yeah. Well, I was actually ironically invited to come down to the White House for the first time, my friend Joe Jebia, who launched America.gov this week, which was a spectacular launch. We're making the American uh government as efficient as private industry. He's the co-founder of um >> Airbnb, >> co-founder of Airbnb and an incredible
[00:36:29] design. He went to Risy with his uh partners and so just shout out to him. If you haven't seen America.gov, it's stunning. >> I spoke on a a panel with Brooke Rollins and Sean Sankar at the event. It was an incredible event. The whole cabinet showed up. The president signed the email and even guys like Andrew Rossin gave this like standing monologue on why it was so incredible for America to see this. It was not partisan at all. It was
[00:36:53] just upgrade America's technology infrastructure for the citizens and it was fantastic. >> Yeah. And by the way, and sorry, Jacob, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I just want to give a shout out to Joe because >> he did that work with his own money. People think that this was like some big government investment. Joe, >> I'm not aware of that. Wow. >> Joe and others put up personal funds and gave up their personal time despite
[00:37:14] their success in their private careers to step in and do this work for America. And I just think it was an incredible rally and cry for all of these technologists to get together and build something great together for America. And it was a really beautiful day. It was great to be there. >> Just No, no, it's it's fine. From the outside, it was incredible. Um, it's just awesome to see the power of all these uh American industry together. Not
[00:37:37] a critique, but an end to add to it. Uh, I think the next piece of this puzzle is to start to include Americans in this the bottom half of the K-shaped recovery. Where's the teacher? Where where's the teenager going into college and all of this? Where's the, you know, American tool belt worker, the plumber, etc. You know, it looks from the outside, I think, uh, from to a lot of Americans that this is still a bit
[00:38:00] scary. So, there's more work to do there. I was on a flight on Delta and the the flight attendants asked me what I did and I was talking to them and they said, "I'm so scared of this AI stuff. I'm so glad I'm retiring because I I don't want to lose my job, etc." Americans are still petrified of this technology. They still think they're losing their jobs. They still think it's dangerous. So, I thought this was like a
[00:38:17] great first step, but there's more work to do to pull Americans back off that ledge. And we need to, and I think this is where the president or the next president could have a really major impact, is to start forcing American companies to not just thinking about how they make more money, how they get more green lights for their data centers, how they get less regulation and more free markets, but how does this impact
[00:38:39] education? How does this lower the cost of education? How does this build more homes? How does this help? How did people get more health care, you know, at a lower price? That none of that was addressed. That doesn't mean I'm I'm giving any criticism of this event, but that's the next piece. The next time President Trump brings together this many powerful people, they should talk about the American public, not just the
[00:39:01] data centers. >> So, a couple things. He did ask for people to do just that and actually showcase some of these things. And he was very specific. He did that and he also said you need to show direct positive impact in the local communities in which you do business. He was very direct. That was super blunt and one of the first few things he said. Um I wanted to build on your other >> by the way that did not come across at
[00:39:23] all. The the the real critique from the public that I think is valid here is it looks like we're just helping that is something the billionaires and the companies I don't mean to sound like Bernie Sanders. They need to address this themselves. It would be great if they started saying like Facebook did with the with the free tool belt stuff and the training. We need to see more of that. And I think housing, education,
[00:39:46] healthcare is where Americans will start to appreciate this. >> I told you that right after the White House lunchon, I flew to Orlando because the >> Erns Young has two day offsite for all their partners. Okay, but listen to this. >> I'm not going to say this person's name, but this person is a very well-known Democratic person. They were on stage and they have this whole riff about doomerism and they're so cavalier about
[00:40:11] it. They actually included the people in the room as part of the claim that they're all going to be out of jobs. And I'm standing there backstage and I'm like, "What are you talking about?" >> It's not rooted in details. It's not rooted in data. It's not rooted in fact. This is a very well-known person, very grounded theoretically in what the data should show. >> Shame and name. But what you realize, well, I mean, I'll say it to you, but
[00:40:33] maybe we bloop it up, but it's And I was like, what the what is going on? And so, to your point, Jason, it is very partisan, and I said this last time on the pot, there's an incredibly important incentive for folks that are not in the power structure today, i.e. Democrats to take up the dumerism call to action because it is a very straightforward way to whip up fear and to then catalyze that to power in the midterms and then
[00:41:02] in 28. So you're going to see >> that's going to win you votes for sure. Yeah. >> No, when I went on stage the first thing I did was I was like she's wrong and that's not true. And in fact everything tells us all the data up until now that there will be more jobs and more to do. And I said the people in this room will be making more money in the next four years and 5 years than less money. There will be more work to be done, more
[00:41:27] judgment, more taste to be imposed. And so I have a real issue with this narrative because I think it's just fundamentally wrong. And it does not come from a place of datadriven fact. It comes from a decision that the political calculus is the doomerism is a way to fment distrust and displeasure and then to use that at the polls. And I understand that as a political tactic, but I think it's important to call it up. This is why I
[00:41:54] say we're in the AI wars. I mean, this is the actual war. There won't be a robot war. It's this battle right now about who's actually going to have the technology and the progress and who's not. >> Well, who's going to benefit from Freeberg? who's going to benefit from it, right? Rich people or poor people, middle class. People don't know what open source is. No one knows what an open weight model means. No one
[00:42:15] understands any of this stuff. And they're looking at the rich guys at the White House. And I agree with you, Jal. I think the public perception and the public narrative on this thing is I don't get it. I see a bunch of wealthy people kind of hanging out with the president at lunch making a bunch of decisions that I don't have a voice around. I don't even know what's going on. I don't even know what they're doing. And then I turn on the news. I
[00:42:35] turn on the TV, I look at my Instagram, and everything's about the end of tomorrow. And so I'm all about shutting it down. No problem. This is why I think it's important to have the conversation that we're having about why does open source and openweight AI benefit everyone because there's no company that's charging you a toll for this digital technology. It's just like the internet. We maintained an open internet. There was a huge fight. People
[00:43:01] forget the fight that we had for the internet. When the internet was first starting out, there were all these efforts to privatize the internet, to create gatekeepers. There were these efforts by all the telos that they were going to be the gatekeeper to the internet and charge you different amounts of money to access different websites. You weren't going to a be able to just go to Yahoo or AOL if you didn't