[00:00:00] Ray Dalio, welcome back to the All-In podcast. Third time's the charm. Thanks for being here. >> It's always always a blast to be here. Thank you for having me. The last conversation we had was so popular, and it was so timely because it was just a few days actually after the inauguration of President Trump, and you had provided some very kind of prescient outlooks for the administration that I think we all thought would be very helpful to get on
[00:00:26] the record. At the time, you had highlighted and and as you have been for some time, this great debt cycle we're in, the fiscal and monetary policy issues that are driving that debt cycle, and provided some input that if we were able to cut our deficit to GDP to roughly 3%, we may have a shot at a smoother transition here. Today, the CBO estimates that the 2026 deficit to GDP is about 6%.
[00:01:07] If you were building a global financial system from first principles today, you wouldn't build it on 50-year-old legacy rails. You'd build Airwallex. It's the single platform for global accounts, cards, and payments that treats the entire world like a local market. Stop paying the legacy tax and start building the future at airwallex.com/allin. Airwallex, build the future. So, the first question I have for you
[00:01:31] looking back on the past year of the administration and the actions of Congress and the economy, are we on a good path? Are we on no different a path than we were, say, a year ago? Are we moving too slowly? I've studied these big cycles in history going back 500 years, and there are five big forces that are intertwined to determine the answer to your question, which is uh there's the debt money one and I'll I'll take you into that at in a minute.
[00:02:02] There is the um domestic gaps, the wealth and values gaps that are causing irreconcilable differences between the left and the right that is affecting how taxes, democracy and everything works. There's the international great power conflict, the classic rising of a great power challenging existing great power and changing the international world order. Then there's technology all through these cycles there have been technology and then
[00:02:39] there's acts of nature, droughts, floods and pandemics. So and when we think of orders we're talking about there's always a monetary order and all monetary orders have broken down for the same reasons. All uh political orders, domestic political orders, they all always change. In the the United States less so, we have 250 years here, but they always change. There was one civil war in there. And then they but internationally they always change,
[00:03:11] all orders change. And the international geopolitical order going from the a multilateral to a unilateral world order is changing and certainly technology is changing. Okay. So getting that fact that they're all on there, now I'll go down to explain the government's finances and answer your question. The economics of a country are basically the same as the economics of a company or an individual except the government has a
[00:03:42] ability to print money. Look at it like a company or like your own. Basically it's projected to spend about $7 trillion and take in about $5 trillion. so it's running a 40% deficit, 40% of its spending. It's been running deficits for a long time, so it has a debt that is 600% six times the amount of money that it takes in and we can project that number. Um, the problem with debt cycles and you can see them transpire, they're
[00:04:18] um almost like the circulatory system of the body, the capital markets uh bring credit to different parts of the economy and if that credit is used to be productive and produces an income that pays for the debt service, it's a healthy process. But what happens is that if the um income the debt service grows relative to the income because it's not paying for it, it's like a plaque in the system uh growing up and it squeezes out
[00:04:56] spending and so we now have that $2 trillion deficit. Half of that is interest payments. Plus we have to roll over $9 trillion of debt that has been accumulated and is maturing. Okay, so now if you were to look at a company like that or an individual like that, you have that problem. So it was a handy number, 3% of GDP would sort of stabilize the situation. Very unhealthy condition. It's not just unhealthy because it's squeezing out those
[00:05:33] spendings, but also because there's a supply and a demand. In other words, you have to roll over the $9 trillion of debt that's coming due and you have to sell $2 trillion more, something like that. Okay? So, now you go to the buyers, and the buyers, who are the buyers? There are some domestic buyers and there are foreign buyers. About a third are foreign buyers, and now it's a riskier situation from their point of view.
[00:06:04] It's riskier First of all, it's a lot to acquire. They dollar-denominated debt is already a large percentage of their portfolio, larger than it would be if just decided on on a prudent basis. So, but also we have political geopolitical risks that also extend to possibly the risks that the debtor and the creditor will have a conflict. You could imagine that with China. You could imagine that with Europe even. And you know, Europeans could wonder
[00:06:41] whether they will get sanctioned. In other words, the debt service payments might not be made as a sanction, and the United States has to worry about whether it's going to bring in that money. Now, the things that I'm describing have happened repeatedly through history. So, in other words, I'm not just making this stuff stuff up. If you were to see particularly, you know, in the 1929 to 45 period, you saw this dynamic. You saw
[00:07:10] it before. So, there was this financial piece which in and of itself is not healthy for the US government. And it's but it's also problematic because of the other factors compounding the problem. You highlighted this problem. You provided a diagnosis that if we could get to 3%, we could soften the effect, but it hasn't happened. We were all very hopeful last year around this time when Elon Musk decided to lead DOGE,
[00:07:44] the Department of Government Efficiency. He was going to go in and there were going to be these kind of big sweeping changes to reduce government spending, find fraud, waste, and abuse, and so on. Did DOGE fail because the actions that were taken were wrong, or did DOGE fail because the system itself cannot be changed at this point in the cycle? That there's too much capital flowing, the economy is too dependent on it,
[00:08:09] there are too many individuals and businesses are dependent on it. And it's structurally impossible to pull our way out of it. I mean, does DOGE tell us something about what's possible at this stage? Yeah, you're talking about uh taking an inefficient government and making it efficient. >> [laughter] >> Okay, and having to do it quick because there are elections and if people don't like it, then, you know, you lose your mandate.
[00:08:36] And in a um society in which, no matter what you do, you're criticized and and torn down. So, you know, we have the fact of uh the question of does democracy and our system lend itself toward the sort of um executive leadership that both makes it efficient and makes it acceptable for all people. You know, there was a lot of uh cutbacks um you know, things like school lunch programs and things, you know, um and then trying to
[00:09:11] do it surgically. So, it's um how do you do that effectively, quickly, in a manner that uh doesn't uh cause so much controversy that the government falls. So, if you look at history, that's why I deal with the political. If you deal with history and you deal just even common sense, think, you know, like um are you going to have the executive leadership that's going to be able to make this satisfactory with most people?
[00:09:46] You know, and do that quickly. I think that's that's a hell of a hell of a trick to pull off. Right. So, it might just be structurally it's a little difficult at this stage. What an understatement. Structurally a little difficult at this stage. Yeah. Well, there was another big news story recently that there may be quite a lot of fraud going on with public dollars in Minnesota that there were these daycares that don't exist and billions of dollars
[00:10:14] are flowing to individuals to run these daycares. And now there's a lot of this sort of citizen journalism going on across the country that federal spending is actually being fraudulently abused. Do you think that this is a symptom of this stage of the cycle? What's your view on how this relates to this problem that we're generally kind of talking about? >> Yeah, it's both the stage of the cycle. And if you're going to have something
[00:10:41] well managed, are you going to have the government well manage it? I mean, how how how well managed, you know, go to the Department of Motor Vehicles for your >> [laughter] >> It's so big and complex and such a you know, such a mess like you know, like when when you think is this a surprise to you that there's all of this stuff going on all over the place in terms of inefficiency? Is that a surprise to you? No. Uh but, you know,
[00:11:15] I guess the question is are people waking up to this? Because last time we spoke you highlighted that a piece of your portfolio was in gold. You had invested quite a bit in gold. Since we spoke, I think gold has climbed from 2,900 an ounce to 5,200 an ounce. What has happened with gold over the last year? Is it that markets are waking up to the point in the cycle that we're in that you've been highlighting for a number of
[00:11:40] years at this point? Or is it because China is structurally abandoning the US dollar and treasuries and moving more into gold and other central banks are moving into gold? Is it because individual speculators and market participants are getting bubbly with gold? What's your view on what's going on with gold and how it relates to the market's acknowledgement of the stage that we're in? It's the big cycle and what what you have to understand is that
[00:12:07] gold is not a precious metal that's speculated on like most people have come to think of it as. Um it is um the most established money that it's the second largest reserve country currency that central banks hold. And so what we've seen is for various reasons that I've pretty much covered, the economic, the supply demand, the political, the geopolitical, for those reasons central banks themselves have acquired
[00:12:44] gold to build that up. And individuals and others are looking for an alternative money. The question is what is money? So when we're thinking about this, money mechanistically, money is debt. What I mean by that is that if you're holding money, you're holding it in the form of a debt instrument. And if you um are holding a debt instrument, what you're getting is a promise from somebody to deliver you money. Okay?
[00:13:21] And what I as I mentioned in the beginning, the power of the central banks when they have too much debt, is to print money. Okay. So, if you've got that down, okay, then you can understand what's happening. Okay? Because the question is, Dave, what money do you think is safe? Right. Given what I've just said. Okay. >> have Yeah. Yeah, I can asset back. Right, I want an asset. I want to have something that's got some physical known
[00:13:56] limitation to it. And particularly what you want is that can be transferred from one place to another, because money is both a medium of exchange and a store hold of wealth. So, in other words, if you if one country's central bank or government wants to pay another government, it can't just be in fixed assets like buildings. Okay? If you want to transact, you have to transact in something that you can transfer to them, and so on. And gold is
[00:14:30] the only asset it's a long-term historic asset for for reasons. That means that it can be transferred, they can't print a lot of it. Um and um it is not dependent on somebody giving you something. In other words, most money most if you hold debt, or you hold stocks, or you hold something, you're holding a promise from somebody to give you buying power. Okay? So, you can Like, wealth is important to think to distinguish wealth from money.
[00:15:06] Okay? Wealth is in stuff. It's you know, it's in buildings, it's in companies, and so on. But, you can't spend wealth. You have to When you want to spend it, and that's the purpose of money, you have to sell it, and then you get money to spend. And right now we have an awful lot of wealth relative to money. And the question is what is that money? And there's the risk that you go to get convert your wealth into money
[00:15:37] that they're going to print money cuz that's what they've always done since we've had fiat currencies. So as you look out and have conversations with all the market participants that you know, and you know everyone that's of size and scale, where are we in terms of folks converting their wealth into gold or their money into gold? Like how much more do we have to run in terms of the dollar denominated value of gold in the market cycle as this
[00:16:05] great rush for the doors, rush for the exit happens? >> Two things that come to mind. What I what I look at is literally who has what assets including like central banks. What is the money and what uh And and what is that mix? And I look at the amount of uh wealth relative to money or I look at the amount of wealth relative uh to gold. And what we've seen is that there's an enormous amount of wealth and there was an enormous amount in
[00:16:43] central banks of the other money relative to hard money gold. And so we've seen about what I would call it go from an extremely small number to something that is a less small number. That price increase and that change in composition has brought it almost not quite, but almost toward uh the average of what it's been uh over a period of time. So, uh being out of balance. However, because the wealth is total wealth is
[00:17:24] still so large relative to money, that's a real uh issue. So, let me give you a practical example of of of this. Wealth taxes and wealth being a risk. One question that might be asked are are we in a bubble? In other words, are AI stocks and other such stocks in a bubble? That's a If you want to get into that, we'll get into that. But, one of the things that we know from that is that one of the characteristics of
[00:17:57] bubbles is that there becomes a need for money that requires people to sell their assets to get money to meet that need. Now, quite often that need comes from borrowing money to buy those assets. Okay? And then the assets go up in price and and so on. But, what happens is it can't be sustained because you have to make the debt service payments and they're not throwing off the cash that to make that. And so, they have to start
[00:18:31] to sell that and then you and when you have to sell it cuz you need money, you need cash to pay your debt service or to pay nowadays wealth taxes. Oh, okay. So, now we have a dynamic. The bubble will burst as that dynamic takes place. There are a number of things we could talk about about the bubble if you're interested. But, just imagine if you put in wealth taxes. Everybody can talk about whether they like or don't like wealth taxes or
[00:19:00] something. But, anything that's If you put in wealth taxes and there's a lot of fear of wealth taxes in and of itself that can drive money uh wealth to cash. Uh and and there's only one way you're going to get the cash with the wealth, and that's either sell it or to borrow against it with that which causes its its own cash flow issues. And we have a dynamic having to do with the social part of this, you know, the wealth gap
[00:19:29] that makes that politically an issue. So, anyway, all I'm saying is people should worry and and companies should worry or countries should worry. Do they have enough gold? I mean, if you didn't know what the if you didn't know what gold was likely to do and you had no view on gold, one should have between 5 and 15% of their portfolio in gold because of the fact of how it works with the other components. In other words, it's a
[00:20:03] diversifier when when the hits the fan, okay, gold does well and the other things don't, generally speaking. And because of that correlation, depending on what else is in the uh portfolio, if you put it through an optimizer, you'd have something like that. So, I'm not trying to tout people on buying gold, but I would say, what is safe? What is safe? And it's safe is somewhere, if you had no view, between 5 and 15%.
[00:20:37] >> Why hasn't Bitcoin performed in the same way? In the same period that gold climbed 80% since we last talked, Bitcoin's down 25%. What's your view on what's happened with Bitcoin and why that hasn't played the role that many thought it was going to play, which is the safe haven asset? >> There There's an important differentiating characteristics of Bitcoin, and then there's also, you know, like who owns it and why they buy
[00:21:02] why they bought and sell. Okay, so Bitcoin does not have privacy. Tra- any transactions uh can be monitored and then uh indirectly perhaps controlled. Central banks are not going to want to buy Bitcoin and being able to hold it. So, it's not just individuals, it's institutions and so on, but most you know, and central banks. So, there there are attributes of that. There has been um some question or thoughts of the