[00:37:10] therefore the system itself has failed them? There are three things basically that you need to do to be successful. You have to first educate your children well. And so that they are capable of being productive and also educate them in civility. So that they are civil with each other. The second is then they have to come out to an environment that is an orderly, civil environment that people can compete and work with
[00:37:42] with with and and compete and work with each other to be productive that that works for the most people. And the third thing is you have to stay out of wars. You have to stay you don't have to have no civil war and no international war. If you do those three things right, you will have a successful country. That's all throughout history. Okay, we're having problems with those. And are those three things the antidote
[00:38:09] to some of the rising movements that we're seeing in increased unionization and effects that unions are having on the political process, which is also leading to these rises in socialism and support for socialist movements in the United States as well as the wealth taxes which from the view that's shared by those participating in those movements, they are meant to solve income inequality, wealth gap issues that we're seeing in
[00:38:37] the United States. So that's their solution. Is the solution to those movements education and civility, creating a civil environment and staying out of wars? Is that all we need to do to make this successful or is there more to the end? >> Yes, that's that's that's that what we need is is is to stop fighting. Okay, we're now at a stage where we have irreconcilable differences. In other words, when when the causes people are behind
[00:39:10] are more important to them than the system, the system is in jeopardy. Our system is in jeopardy because um they people will not accept the system or the alternatives. And so they're going to fight. You know, I think I think when we have we're going to have the midterm elections, you're going to go past the midterm elections with probably that uh Democrats will take the house and be and maybe I don't know, it's going to be difficult. And you know
[00:39:47] what? Nobody can succeed because everybody's going to be fighting. Uh they're going to all be fighting. Okay? So how does that affect productivity? Uh okay. And then when you deal with things like how do you get a good education system? So you have now almost the mob disorder. Mob disorder and inefficiency. Nobody's allowed to take charge of this. If if you go back in history, Plato, you know, I think it was like 350
[00:40:19] BC wrote about the cycle you know, of democracies and the threat to democracies. What's happening now is similar to Julius Caesar and Rome and beings you know, stabbed in the Senate and and what you need is you need a bipartisan you need you need the country to have have a strong almost a strong leader. We do need a strong leader to get the the reforms done to make the country work well, but I mean, so how do you force
[00:41:00] this mob of people who are behaving this way including in the elections and so fragment to create order. So, you need a a tough leader will force them to do different force things to difficult things and not fight with each other and [laughter] focus on being productive. That's what you need I think. It sounds a little like there may be this inevitable path of the choice that no one wants to make between some form of
[00:41:32] socialism and some form of fascism. Is that where this goes? >> I think you were we're moving toward the that war. We're in that war. We're in what's state what I call stage five of a cycle. Okay. In the book I described the pattern that's happened over and over again and when you get to this position when there are a bad finances combined with large wealth and values gaps and irreconcilable differences and you have external threats as well as
[00:42:08] domestic threats you have this dynamic. I think that's where we are I I'm like a mechanic. My goal I'm not ideological. I'm just a practical guy trying to make money in the markets and trying to describe things and that's what it looks like. I think when we look at the bubble question on AI, what a lot of people don't realize in bubbles is that through all technologies, they think that they are betting on the technology when they
[00:42:40] buy the stocks in the companies. That's not true. Okay, there's a giant difference between the behavior of the companies and the behavior of the technologies. And that the norm is in these is that a lot of companies won't survive in the start. Very small percentage and they'll all fight and so on, but the technologies will go on and it'll be great. The technologies will. So, I want to emphasize to people that dynamic and I can go on
[00:43:14] and describe, you know, what it's like. Uh uh Of course, we've seen it to some extent with the 2000 bubble in the technologies and what went on, but even if I describe what it was like in the late '20s, but you know, it's just it was unbelievable, but the technologies will go on, but the companies um won't necessarily go on. And um so, when I'm looking at that, that has big implications. Right now, it looks to me
[00:43:44] like AI uh basically is eating everything and it might eat itself. And uh what I mean by that is not produce adequate profits. We can't take just a domestic view of that. We have to look also at what's happening in China and um Um, make interesting distinctions there. you know? There's a difference in philosophy that's carried through in the economy of how the economies of the United States and China work in that we have basically primarily a
[00:44:20] profit-based system. They have a system in which they might believe that profits are a second consideration. They're not necessarily needed in order to achieve the best results. For example, in China, they would say usage of AI is fantastic. So, it should be like electricity or something, and let's make it free for everyone. And let's make it open source for everyone. Okay, and they might get much higher usage, and they'll get their
[00:44:57] productivity gains through the usage. And we have a profit system to pay back. Okay, well, now we're in one world. How do you compete in that world? What do you do with that? In other words, just imagine that their technologies are almost as good as ours, cuz they are. They're not far behind. And and and then but that you could get them for free. Open source. Okay, now you got to pay it back. Okay, so I just want to emphasize
[00:45:30] that these are also systematic risks that enter into the picture of of AI. But you certainly Yeah. Uh, there are a lot of unknowns here. As we wrap, looking back on the history of this nation, I ask myself the question a lot, how did we get to the point that we've gotten to in terms of the amount of debt, the amount of government spending, the role that the central bank has played, and the risks that we find ourselves in
[00:45:58] today that all seem largely avoidable if we hadn't taken or made the decisions we made along the way. You've highlighted that they repeat over and over again. But if you could go back and restructure the United States and be a founding father and write the Constitution yourself, what are one to three things that you would have done differently? What would you have written into the Constitution that may have prevented us from getting
[00:46:21] into the situation that we're in today? Well, the I mean, it's like the marshmallow test. You know the marshmallow test? You know you you want to see it. It is a kid going at early age you give them the choice between one marshmallow now and two marshmallows in 20 minutes. And the kid that chooses the two marshmallows in 20 minutes is going to have a better life and make better decisions kind of thing. I mean, that therein lies our problem.
[00:46:49] The immediate gratification and also the not knowing if things are going to be productive. But the system has been remarkably adaptable, too. In other words, we've gone through crises, we've wiped out debts, and we've gotten past it. And there are certain ways of getting past it. But you you know, it's a it's a tough question to balance financial prudence with innovative inventions. You know? Because you like particularly like take AI now.
[00:47:24] Nobody knows what's going to come of it in in what what way, right? Is it going to pay? Is it not going to pay? And all of that. And so, what do you write into the law that is going to get you financial prudence and controlled? And do you when you write it into the law, does that lessen the experimentation and you know, the entrepreneurship and all of the things that you know? So, it's tough to do this with with rules. I think maybe the main thing
[00:47:58] is I would say read history. Read history and know these things and try to get that balance right, you know, everything's a matter of the balance. So the balance of the pain of failing or the pain of putting money into a something that fails. Well Ray, I want to thank you once again for taking the time to be here with me. It's always great to catch up here your perspective. Obviously so much has changed in the
[00:48:25] last year and yet so much hasn't. It's been great to to get your view on it and I think it's really helpful to do this. So so thanks so much. And and thank you for what you guys do. I'm I'm I'm riveted to your program and I think you make a great contribution. So conversations like this are are really practical helps for a lot of people. So anyway, thank you for letting me participate and thank you for what you do for a lot of people. Thank you.
[00:48:51] >> That's right. I'm going all in.
[00:49:08] I'm going all in.