[00:18:31] to sell that and then you and when you have to sell it cuz you need money, you need cash to pay your debt service or to pay nowadays wealth taxes. Oh, okay. So, now we have a dynamic. The bubble will burst as that dynamic takes place. There are a number of things we could talk about about the bubble if you're interested. But, just imagine if you put in wealth taxes. Everybody can talk about whether they like or don't like wealth taxes or
[00:19:00] something. But, anything that's If you put in wealth taxes and there's a lot of fear of wealth taxes in and of itself that can drive money uh wealth to cash. Uh and and there's only one way you're going to get the cash with the wealth, and that's either sell it or to borrow against it with that which causes its its own cash flow issues. And we have a dynamic having to do with the social part of this, you know, the wealth gap
[00:19:29] that makes that politically an issue. So, anyway, all I'm saying is people should worry and and companies should worry or countries should worry. Do they have enough gold? I mean, if you didn't know what the if you didn't know what gold was likely to do and you had no view on gold, one should have between 5 and 15% of their portfolio in gold because of the fact of how it works with the other components. In other words, it's a
[00:20:03] diversifier when when the hits the fan, okay, gold does well and the other things don't, generally speaking. And because of that correlation, depending on what else is in the uh portfolio, if you put it through an optimizer, you'd have something like that. So, I'm not trying to tout people on buying gold, but I would say, what is safe? What is safe? And it's safe is somewhere, if you had no view, between 5 and 15%.
[00:20:37] >> Why hasn't Bitcoin performed in the same way? In the same period that gold climbed 80% since we last talked, Bitcoin's down 25%. What's your view on what's happened with Bitcoin and why that hasn't played the role that many thought it was going to play, which is the safe haven asset? >> There There's an important differentiating characteristics of Bitcoin, and then there's also, you know, like who owns it and why they buy
[00:21:02] why they bought and sell. Okay, so Bitcoin does not have privacy. Tra- any transactions uh can be monitored and then uh indirectly perhaps controlled. Central banks are not going to want to buy Bitcoin and being able to hold it. So, it's not just individuals, it's institutions and so on, but most you know, and central banks. So, there there are attributes of that. There has been um some question or thoughts of the
[00:21:33] development of, you know, new technologies like quantum computing and so on. Can there be issues regarding that? And then there's um you know, who owns it and what are the other exposures that they have in their portfolio. It tends to have a a pretty high correlation with uh the tech stocks. So, from an ownership, you know, just the supply demand is affected by if somebody gets squeezed in one thing, they sell something that what whatever
[00:22:04] else they have. So, there are those dynamics. It's a long way as and it's a relatively small market that's a relatively controllable market. I think a lot of attention has been given to Bitcoin, but as a money, you know, it's it's it's it's small in relationship to uh gold and so you know, those are the dynamics. There is only one gold. What about silver? I mean, silver has had a big run-up in the past year as well. Is that a derivative to
[00:22:33] gold and it's effectively people playing off of the wake of gold price movement? >> silver in its production is a residual commodity. The supply of it is difficult to increase and through history, uh you know, like the pound sterling, silver was perceived as a monetary uh item. Uh but it uh has also taken on a speculative life of its own. So, you know, people are, um, you know, hot in it because it's been hot. I just
[00:23:09] want to shift gear a little bit back to something you touched on, but the last time we met, you also talked about the importance of making sure that interest rates remain low for us to kind of manage the effect and the impact of the stage of the cycle that we're in. What's your view, I guess, today on where rates are and how the Fed has acted over the past year relative to what needs to be done to soften the effects of the stage in
[00:23:34] the cycle that we're in. Because we have so much debt, federal debt, um, interest rates are one of the three main considerations. There's the, um, taxes, there's spending, and then there's interest rates are the on the debt. But, you can't make interest rates, um, severely artificially low because one man's debts are another man's assets. And if you make those interest rates too low for the creditor, you will produce the dynamic that we
[00:24:08] understand. In other words, they'll produce a lot more borrowing, they'll put it into things, and you can fuel a bubble. And so, at the same time, uh, you can't have them so high that the debtor gets squeezed unaffectedly. So, there's a balancing act, you know, keep them high enough that they're adequate for the creditor, but not so high that the debtor. So, when you have a lot of debt assets and liabilities, cuz for every debt asset,
[00:24:40] there's a debt liability. And when you have a lot of those, that balancing act is is very difficult. This made more difficult, you know, because of what's called the K economy, you know, in other words, there are bubble elements that are going on in the part of the economy, you know, where um you know, the question is who will be the first to be a trillionaire and and and that, you know, that top 1% of the population and all of that at
[00:25:13] the same time as you have the other part of the economy where um for example, 60% of all Americans have below a sixth-grade reading level. And and to make them productive particularly as we are also having AI have replacements for them um is a particularly difficult thing to achieve. In other words, when you have so much dead assets and liabilities and then you have such a disparity in conditions between those that are at the
[00:25:49] top and let's call it the bottom 60% of the population, what that's like. That's uh you know, another hat trick. That's another difficult thing to pull off. So this is a challenging situation. As for as far as monetary policy exists the idea of setting an interest rate and having a fiscal policy and a monetary policy that's for the economy as a whole and doesn't deal with the differences in the in the circumstances may be more
[00:26:33] well, it is more challenging. Well, so taking a look at Fed action and market activity there's been a lot of reporting over the past year that a number of global central banks have stopped buying US Treasuries and are shifting to gold. Does this mean that Fed in the US is going to have to start buying treasuries and expand their balance sheet again? Is it inevitable that we see a re-expansion of the Fed's balance sheet in this
[00:27:04] phase in the cycle given what's going on with global market action? I think that it's likely down the road. Um, uh, right now, uh, there's um, the shortening of maturities, um, as a means of trying to deal with that. Of course, that increases the debt rollover risk. Uh, but the, you know, sell less long debt, uh, try to, uh, hold the short rate down so that the longer rates attachment to it doesn't get, you know, helps to hold
[00:27:38] the long rate down. And then, uh, try to, um, use the government's power of persuasion on other countries to either buy the debt or to hold the debt or to have other forms of capital enter the United States. How do you like Kevin Warsh's pick for Fed chair? What's your view on how he's going to guide interest rate policy for the Central Bank and when he assumes his term? It's a very, very big challenge. I think he's a practical man.
[00:28:11] He understands both sides of the pros and cons. I think it's a tough job. One of the other things that I would say was pretty surprising over the past year is how adamantly against tariffs for fear of inflation and reduced consumption, which would mean a negative effect on GDP growth, perhaps. Tariffs might be. The president and the administration put in place a number of tariffs under the emergency economic powers act, which the Supreme
[00:28:46] Court in the last week or so overturned. But, looking back on the economic effect of tariffs, what do you think economists got right and wrong about their predictions about the effect tariffs would have on the economy, on consumption, on inflation? And are there things that economists fundamentally missed or didn't understand and why? Yeah, I I think so. First of all, um there's the uh tax revenue part of them. I mean, thinking
[00:29:18] of that just as uh revenue. And I think that people don't all economists make the mistake of not including taxes in inflation. Mhm. And what I mean by that [snorts] is if your if your taxes go up, that's inflation. It I mean, why shouldn't it be any different than if your cost of housing goes up, why shouldn't it be part of the inflation calculation number? It's tak- it's taken money out of your pocket. I mean, it's probably the you know, for a
[00:29:58] lot of people the biggest expense. And so, when they say inflation is something separate, you know, I I I think it's changing the form of uh of inflation in a sense. So, what I mean is, you know, through history, tariffs used to be the biggest source of uh revenue for the government thro- throughout most history. And in most countries. Okay. So, it is a um I think it's viewed It's It's a totally valid way of raising
[00:30:34] money, and it should be kept kept in consideration for that. And And you get the foreigners paying a portion of it. But, it there's also, as part of the big cycle question, is the problem that we have that we are not independent. Okay, we've had a hollowing out. This is the big question, you know, that we've had a hollowing out of manufacturing, the middle class, and so on. Now, are we going to try to build that?
[00:31:06] And what is the plan to build that? Or are we going to continue on with large trade deficits? And um so, you have unsustainable trade deficits that the United States has, and which are capital um surpluses. In other words, the dependence on foreign capital is the other side of those trade balances, and that's unsustainable. So, because that's unsustainable, um you need uh some way of uh rectifying that. Okay, so what is the plan to rectify that?
[00:31:46] Partially, that plan uh can have trade tariffs. I think they're totally valid, uh but it all has to be part of another greater plan, which is to develop the industries that we need to have developed, which we're seeing happen in a much more proactive way. In other words, you're seeing more government um activity to create infrastructure, to bring in industries, and so on. You need that not only economically, but you
[00:32:17] need it geopolitically, because you can't have dependencies. In other words, we're entering a world of greater conflict. We moved from a multilateral world order to a a power-based confrontational world economy. And in that environment, everybody's threatening to cut off everything from it. You know, the uh goods and capital wars that we can have are threatening. And so you have to build independence. And so that's part of a plan to try to build
[00:32:53] that independence. So I I think when I look at that, I don't think that's the problem. I I'd say and it's misunderstood. So yes, I think people are misunderstanding that. And the important thing is we get the other things right. You know, like Let's get down to 3% and and by the way, there's a bipartisan bill that on this. And Uh The three the 3% bill. >> to this has come out in favor of it. I'm in favor of it. I mean lots of people are
[00:33:27] in favor of you know, what I'll call the 3% three-part solution. 3% of GDP, three parts, a bit from one thing, a bit from another, taxes, spending and and hopefully interest rates. And just to take the inflation question to its conclusion at the State of the Union this week, President Trump shared his vision, which is that tariffs can completely replace an income tax in the United States. Do you think that that's
[00:33:59] a feasible path? Does it make sense at some point for tariffs, which are effectively consumption taxes >> it's I don't think it's going to No, I don't think it's anywhere near that both because of the combination of the size and then the impact of that size. Tariffs are regressive. And I think that there needs to be some We have to deal with the wealth gap. To me the wealth gap, the biggest problem of the wealth gap, which is a a
[00:34:30] social problem, is also the productivity gap. And you have to make most people productive. And you have to do that through infrastructure and so on. And I I don't think I think that needs to be addressed. It's a really important point you just made. I think my analysis indicates that nearly half of Americans either work for a government agency or a government service provider or a contractor. The data over the past year
[00:35:04] is the federal workforce declined by 317,000 employees, roughly 14% of the total federal workforce. As this administration has reduced the size of some of these agencies, reduced the size of that workforce, what happens to those individuals? Do they go work in the private workforce and become productive, or do you think they're getting subsumed by other government agencies, either state or local, or government service providers
[00:35:33] to do work that fundamentally is not productive to growing the economy? I I I haven't studied the numbers. I don't think I can adequately answer that. I would say government is extremely inefficient. It has a role. It has an important role, but even that role it's handling very inefficiently. Other governments handle that role of maybe education, some of these things in a better way. We need fundamental We need
[00:36:06] You know, best thing you could invest in is education. But anyway, where they go and what they do from the government and and you know, the other inefficiencies is a problem. The one thing that's good about uh the system that the capitalist system in a sense is it doesn't live if it can't uh if somebody either won't bet on it or it doesn't make a profit. So, um yeah, so I think wherever it goes, um it's wherever those
[00:36:40] people go, there's just so many inefficient people and inefficient systems. Is there not enough productivity-driven economic growth in this nation at this time to give more people the opportunity to improve their income, improve their wealth, improve their livelihoods? Is that the fundamental issue we're dealing with at the moment? Or is it that, you know, people aren't prepared or educated to be productive and
[00:37:10] therefore the system itself has failed them? There are three things basically that you need to do to be successful. You have to first educate your children well. And so that they are capable of being productive and also educate them in civility. So that they are civil with each other. The second is then they have to come out to an environment that is an orderly, civil environment that people can compete and work with
[00:37:42] with with and and compete and work with each other to be productive that that works for the most people. And the third thing is you have to stay out of wars. You have to stay you don't have to have no civil war and no international war. If you do those three things right, you will have a successful country. That's all throughout history. Okay, we're having problems with those. And are those three things the antidote
[00:38:09] to some of the rising movements that we're seeing in increased unionization and effects that unions are having on the political process, which is also leading to these rises in socialism and support for socialist movements in the United States as well as the wealth taxes which from the view that's shared by those participating in those movements, they are meant to solve income inequality, wealth gap issues that we're seeing in
[00:38:37] the United States. So that's their solution. Is the solution to those movements education and civility, creating a civil environment and staying out of wars? Is that all we need to do to make this successful or is there more to the end? >> Yes, that's that's that's that what we need is is is to stop fighting. Okay, we're now at a stage where we have irreconcilable differences. In other words, when when the causes people are behind
[00:39:10] are more important to them than the system, the system is in jeopardy. Our system is in jeopardy because um they people will not accept the system or the alternatives. And so they're going to fight. You know, I think I think when we have we're going to have the midterm elections, you're going to go past the midterm elections with probably that uh Democrats will take the house and be and maybe I don't know, it's going to be difficult. And you know
[00:39:47] what? Nobody can succeed because everybody's going to be fighting. Uh they're going to all be fighting. Okay? So how does that affect productivity? Uh okay. And then when you deal with things like how do you get a good education system? So you have now almost the mob disorder. Mob disorder and inefficiency. Nobody's allowed to take charge of this. If if you go back in history, Plato, you know, I think it was like 350