[00:15:21] representing it particularly well? we can point out, hey, Elon has said we're going to move to a world of incredible abundance and working will be optional. I think that's on the margin a little scary for people to hear because they hear no job. But he does say, hey, universal basic income is probably going to have to come into, you know, place. He said that multiple times. You have Daario, according to Chimath talking his
[00:15:44] own book, scaring the be Jesus out of people in order to get regulatory capture. What do you think is going on here and how can we do better as an industry? >> I think Jimoth outlined like a very viable and positive path forward. We're just, you know, real people who are not, you know, at the tip of the spear. These are the positive impacts AI's had on my life. I was at a I was at I was at an event maybe 10 days ago and someone who
[00:16:13] runs a hedge fund, his daughter was born with a very rare genetic mutation that effectively would have normally condemned her to a life devoid of joy, meaning everything the neurons in her brain were not firing. So she wouldn't, you know, who knows what her life expectancy would have been or what the quality of her life would would have been. and it's it's a tragic disease. He said he didn't accept that as an
[00:16:41] answer. He found he did an enormous amount of research with LLMs and found an existing safe drug on the market that they thought would have a meaningful impact on his daughter's condition and it did. It took I think the percentage of times the neurods were firing was 30 or 40% and it took it up to 80 or 90%. And that means that she can live a normal life. She may not be as smart as she would have been, but she can live a
[00:17:08] normal life. And he's now figured out how to use AI, how to to further tailor that drug. And you know, there've been all sorts of advances in protein design, etc., etc. And he's reasonably confident he's going to have a drug in months that is a complete cure. And that's just one person, one dad who was unwilling to accept defeat for his daughter and who changed her life and the life of everyone else with that disease. And we
[00:17:39] tell those stories. So I think Elon's doing a good job. A future where work is optional. I think that sounds great to some people, you know, scary to others. You know, a 4-day work week, you know, I think is is probably something that sounds sounds good to a lot of people. I think Jensen is doing a good job of being an effective advocate. And I do think anyone who is trying to drive reggget I just we need to stay focused on the
[00:18:04] positives as well. >> Yeah Freeberg what's your take here on the AI PR crisis if we'll call it that? Uh we had three different commencement speeches that were booed. Eric Schmidt being one of them, two other ones by maybe less notable folks. when you hear young people booing AI viferously, why are they doing that, Freeberg? And what's your take on the overall PR problem and how to turn it around? >> Uh, that's a
[00:18:38] there's a long answer to that question. Um, >> it relates in some ways to your concerns about socialism and polarization. >> The long answer. >> What's the long answer? >> I mean, that's like like why do people hate technology? the greatest technological why do they >> this technology they love their phones they love the internet this technology they >> I think that there's like an underlying view that technology creates leverage
[00:19:10] for a small group of people which creates power imbalances and nothing represents that more than AI that a small number of people that control and profit from and benefit from AI are going to end up getting outsides returns relative to the broader population that the time to diffusion of the technology because ultimately all technologies like commoditize and diffuse but the time to diffusion here is such that it's going
[00:19:43] to be like extremely asymmetric for society and I think that there is something fundamental about that it's like you know nuclear bombs I think really created this this moment in people's minds in the mid 20th century that by the back half of the 20th century gave everyone a high degree of skepticism about technology and science generally that those who have the knowledge and those who engineer solutions with the knowledge can create
[00:20:08] outsized advantages for themselves and it puts the rest of us at risk the rest of the world the rest of the population at risk and because those questions about when does this benefit me how does it benefit me can't be answered today the economic benefit that's acrewing to the few today becomes the narrative. It becomes the story and it becomes this like power system that a few people take from the many. And so there's something
[00:20:34] deeply disturbing for the average person about that. They don't understand how it works, why it works, what it'll do for them, when it will do it, and all that they're being told is that some people are making trillions of dollars. So I think that it's pretty obvious why this has got such a backlash. Secondly, I think that there's a deep amount of external energy that's fueling this anti-technology sentiment in the United
[00:20:55] States and has been for decades. I think to Gavin's point, I don't think it's just China with NOS's today. I think that there is a long history of state actors intervening in media activities in foreign nations to try and create the sentiment and fuel a sentiment that reduces progress in that competitive state. I think this goes all the way back to KGB design during the Cold War and it's been refined and honed
[00:21:25] and improved over time. This is not just some conspiracy theory. There are plenty of great books about this. The techniques of what's going on specifically today, I don't know enough. I don't have any great details on that. But I don't think that there's no foreign interest in seeing technology advancement slow in competitive nations. The United States probably does similar things to other nations. And I think that that's
[00:21:48] probably a key part of this. And then I think this this like third piece is like when the capernac revolution happened it was a mind you know like helioentricity was a totally new way of thinking for humans and it was uh deeply disruptive to the church and it was deeply disruptive to the power centers which were the centers that could tell people earth is at the center of the universe. We're in control. We're the direct
[00:22:15] channel to God. And the idea that the sun is at the center of the solar system and we spin around it and we're a tiny speck in the universe was very hard for people to grasp. There's something about AI that's very like not humanentric and it kind of shifts and fs with the ego of the human. It's it's almost anti-humanist and I think that that's like a deep psychological current a lot of people and their disdain for this technology.
[00:22:40] It fuels it. It's not the cause but I think it fuels it. So I think there's a lot of complicated aspects to this Jal. You know, I don't think there's like a simple put put Sham on on a podcast and he'll solve the problems with AI right now. I think that there's a real set of shifts happening >> and there's a real set of global competition underway where you know various state actors and interests are competing with each other
[00:23:02] >> do you think that we should slow down? >> I don't think you can. >> No, no, no. Do you think we should slow down? >> No. I I think I was just talking to some people on a Zoom right before this, but I think after the Manhattan project, the research labs were stood up to maintain our scientists that worked on the the Manhattan project from effectively leeching back or leaking back to Russia and Germany and and and other places
[00:23:27] that that were adversary to the United States. And they all were against the nuclear bomb. They worked on it because it was necessary for the United States security. But then when Russia got a hold of the secrets, they were leaked because people were worried that if the US had all the power, there would be no counterbalance to the power. And so the the nuclear secrets were leaked to Russia for that purpose. Then when
[00:23:50] Russia had the nuclear secrets and they began developing hydrogen fusion bombs and it it was clear that they were going to race ahead, the United States raced ahead with developing nuclear bombs as a counterbalance to Russia. When the proliferation began, there was no stopping it. it began and you have to have this balance in the world otherwise you have effectively an asymmetric power that can do whatever it wants globally.
[00:24:14] I think there's that moment in the world right now where if the United States does not advance its AI technology, the availability of it, TBD industry, taxation, all these all these things that we're talking about doing, there will be someone else that will. And if someone else does, we can go through what would happen. There's a there's a complicated game theory on this, but what would happen if China had sufficiently advanced models and
[00:24:40] sufficiently advanced scaled deployment of those models relative to the United States? As you do that analysis, you realize, wait a second, that's probably not a healthy place for the world to be. It's also probably not a healthy place for the United States to be the only one with AI. And so I I think what we end up seeing is if we do try and slow down AI, we kind of lose this moment of balance that's necessary when you have a
[00:25:04] technology proliferation like we saw with the arms race after World War II that, you know, we're going to see again here. >> Chimath, you I think bring up a good point. You know, should we slow it down or could we slow it down? There actually have been some discussions about ways to do this. One of them would be, hey, with self-driving, people are scared that all these cab drivers are going to lose their jobs. Uber drivers, cab drivers,
[00:25:29] bus drivers, truck drivers. This is, you know, over 10 million people in the United States driving things for a living. Would you be in favor of some of the announcements that that will be a paced roll out? It won't happen all at once. In other words, those people will be giving some amount of job security to stay behind the wheel with it. Another example that's been given is if you put Optimus into Amazon factories or the
[00:25:53] figure robot just did like a week of just sorting packages. I'm sure everybody saw that video. We'll insert it here. That figure robot sorting things. Hey, if Amazon deploys those, there'll be a tax on those per hour and we'll tax humanoid robots in some ways and then use that for say retraining people. Those are two very specific conditions and approaches that people have been promoting. Do either of those resonate with you in any way?
[00:26:19] I think it's interesting that in all of those discussions, I've yet to see an actual survey of only the truck drivers and only the package sorters. >> The question that I would have is, do the people that do these jobs want these jobs? And if they do, then there's a reasonable claim to make to keep those jobs the way that they are. If you're saying this is the job that I do, I love it. I'm able to provide for my family.
[00:26:44] Great. That's a very different argument than well you know what Amazon has 35 or 40% churn inside of their warehouses and we should probably ask the question why is that because if it was such a great job I suspect the churn would be 3 or 4%. So what exactly is it that we want to protect and have you asked them? And I think that this is just again a bunch of people in the peanut gallery who want to take a moral high ground and try to
[00:27:12] make some other group of people feel guilty or feel bad. At no point are we actually asking the conversation that that we should be having, which is it's interesting to me that the there was supposed to be an EO an exe a presidential executive order that was announced today and then it was pulled. It was scrubbed at the last minute. >> Did you guys notice that? And yesterday what was leaked was everybody that was
[00:27:36] attending. It was all the big Neolabs CEOs and it was all the big hyperscaler CEOs >> including friend of the pod Nick Aurora. Shout out to Nick. And then it was scrubbed an hour ago. Why was it scrubbed? And the president said that there were aspects of the bill that he didn't agree with. And as far as we can tell, the aspects would have required some amount of supervision, insight, review from the federal government
[00:28:02] >> of language models specifically of these frontier models is what I read. >> Not language models because I think just of AI because there's going to be many different kinds. They're not always going to be language models, but of AI. So look, I think Freeberg is is right. We are in a proliferation with China. I think it's actually good that China is less than nine months behind us. I think it allows us to find a detant
[00:28:24] where we have a certain magnitude of capability that they also have and that allows all of us to then seek peace and abundance and the fact that we are orthogonal societies, we are organized differently increases the probability of finding peace using the Renee Gerard kind of framework of mimetic theory than if if it was like us and another country that was exactly similar to us. So I think what we need to do, we
[00:28:52] probably need KYC. I think that that should be something that us in China get together and say you don't want it to get into the hands of people you can't control. You probably already KYC those models anyway inside of China. You already review those training runs before you allow these models to get released. We already know that that's happening. >> Yes. >> So we should probably do some sort of KYC so some crazy person doesn't create
[00:29:12] some biological weapon. I think that those are like some reasonable ground rules. But otherwise, Freeberg is right. You have to take a a little bit of a deterministic view here, which is that we are in this existential race and we need to get to the place where each of us, meaning us in China, can look each other in the eye and say, &quot;All right, weapons down, so to speak.&quot; >> Gavin, I'm going to hold you to answer
[00:29:34] two questions. One, should we run Frontier models? Because that's specifically what was mentioned in the leak about the EO Frontier models, the powerful ones. Should they be run through some sort of testing before they're released? And should there be some regulatory framework for that? That's my first question to you. Yes or no question. And then you can explain your answer. >> Jeez. Like I just think it's such a
[00:29:58] complicated topic. It feels we're a little early for that. I don't love the idea of the United States um doing it and no one else doing it. I like I think in a world where we hold hands with China I think that's that's much more palatable and we are aligned and we trust each other and have kind of verification uh capabilities I do think yeah let me then rephrase it should China and the US come up with a simple battery of things
[00:30:33] that have to be tested before these go out including boweapons terrorism and and that genre of in that vertical of just really known dangerous things just like the FDA might test for poisons or contaminants in a food or a drug. Would you be in favor of that? I'm curious. >> So, a few things like the one one thing that's great about America is there is or one thing that's just we have other forms of regulation.
[00:31:03] >> Self-regulation. Sure. We have self one we have self-regulation also we have the courts and if an AI model company behaves irresponsibly they know that there are ways that people who have been harmed can seek recourse and so we already have a system that encourages responsible behavior on the part of the model makers. That's a great point because OpenAI is being sued right now by a kid who who killed themselves
[00:31:32] after talking to OpenAI's model. So you're you're correct in that. Yes. After the fact. Yeah. >> And we will see we'll soon we'll see more of that. I just you know to me once you give something give a power to the government. >> It's almost never taken back and it tends to grow >> and it's kind of a one-way a one-way path. >> Oneway ratchet. Yeah. >> Yeah. Second question then. Chimath was saying, &quot;Hey, nobody listens to the, you
[00:31:59] know, these cab drivers or maybe the um people sorting the packages. Do they want the jobs or not?&quot; Actually, the UK, there was just a 60-minute special and UK and also Boston and New York are pretty adamant that they want humans to stay and they want to ban self-driving in those locations or severely limited or maybe limit it in some way to let those people keep their jobs. How do you feel about that possibility? Is that
[00:32:22] something you think society should be open to some gradual licensing? >> They're going to get sued for wrongful death. When somebody runs over somebody else and you could have implemented a solution that has a zero death rate, that's very different from package sorting. >> Okay. >> Go talk to the package sorters is what I say. Go talk to the people inside the Amazon warehouse. Ask them what they would rather do at Amazon. Ask them.