[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world. It's the Allin podcast, episode 274. Sachs is out today, but we're very lucky to have Gavin Baker from Treaties Management joining us. The spicy takes must flow. Welcome back to the program. Besty Gavin, >> thanks for having me. Always love it. >> It's been a huge week in tech. We can start with the SpaceX and OpenAI IPOs. We've got Andre Karpathy joining
[00:00:28] Anthropic. Nvidia crushing it. So many different places to go, but I think we'll start with Andre Carpathy joining Anthropic. Carpathy is only 39 years old. He's already a legend in the tech industry if you don't know him. I believe he's also coming to liquidity. Yet, >> he's going to keynote on Monday morning. >> Oh, fantastic. >> No, Tuesday. Tuesday. Tuesday. Day two. I think he's keing. >> Okay. As is Gavin. Gavin will be there.
[00:00:52] Founding member of >> Gavin anchoring day two as >> excellent. Yeah, this is Gavin's second appearance at >> Look at those two bookmarks. Andre Carpathy and Gavin Baker. >> Oh, yeah. You know, >> liquidity pulls in the stars. >> Obviously, Andre was a founding member of OpenAI. He led the self-driving team. >> Also, hold on. Gavin is going to help us judge the best ideas section as well. Excellent. >> I don't know if you know that, Gavin,
[00:01:15] but you're a judge. You're a judge. >> I'm up for anything, man. I'm easy. >> Yes. Kurpathy also coined the term vibe coding. He recently built auto research. I think we talked about that here a bit. That's an open source training tool. It helps AI models improve themselves by running five-minute experiments. That got over 82,000 stars on GitHub. He did that like as a weekend experiment and all these civilians started building
[00:01:36] their own uh recursive LLMs. Really inspiring. And the Andre Karpathy skills is a tool based on his set of principles for claude code. And somebody just released that. And so that's just pretty crazy when you think about it. He's going to be in charge of a new pre-training team at Anthropic. The focus obviously being recursive self-improvement. In other words, they're going to have Claude improve itself. And they've already talked a
[00:02:03] little bit about AI improving AI over at anthropic. What's your take on this? Is this uh super important in 2026? Obviously, Karpathy is super well respected. is obviously uh you know one of the true talents in the space but hey we're in we're in a different inning than we were say 10 years ago when he was at Tesla or five years ago when he co-founded open AI >> you know what's interesting if you go back to like Google the culture of
[00:02:29] Google which they got right was the singular technical talents there they were singled out and they were called Google fellows I don't know if you guys remember this like Ahmed Single >> Shredar Ramaswami Jeff Dean these guys are stars. And what's interesting is if you track what folks, particularly Jeff Dean, I guess, now because the other two aren't there anymore, but what they did inside of Google, it's like wave upon wave, they
[00:02:57] were at the foot of those waves. What's interesting about Andre is he's been at the wave upon wave of AI. He was probably the first person that really commercialized the Richard Sutton bitter lesson essay when he was leading FSD at Tesla which was really about the brute force computation and I remember him telling me this story I don't know if he said this publicly or not but where he spent a portion of his time I want to
[00:03:23] say a quarter of his time labeling data could you imagine like 201617 like handlabeling video data from Teslas So he did that then he co-founder of open AI he's a star and he's an exceptional human being and he's super curious and then what he's done as a kind of a free agent is also quite impressive. So I think that this is a really important deal. I think he's one of these really curious people that can be sent off and
[00:03:51] they'll just go and invent new things. And I think this idea of recursive self-learning puts these models on a combination of overdrive and autopilot. And so if you put those two things together, I think that you start to you can potentially live out this idea that there's an order of magnitude improvement on a yearly basis. So like this new form of Moore's law. So then the model quality just goes absolutely parabolically just like this straight
[00:04:22] up. throwing a bunch of compute at the problem and these things learn really quick. >> I think is the high order bit there. Gavin, what are you what's your take on Anthropic's recent success and their massive hiring binge? >> The success is extraordinary. It's undeniable. I think the fact that they are now they were EBIT positive per the Wall Street Journal in the most recent quarter is a really important fact for
[00:04:48] kind of the whole AI narrative because now there's you know you could talk about circular funding you could talk about ROI and we could go look at the ROIC of the hyperscalers but if OpenAI and Enthropic are at call it a hundred billion dollars of ARR now with 80%ish gross margins on inference like the returns are there and then if we add in and they're growing really fast if we add in Gemini we add in cursor we add in
[00:05:17] XAI we add in open source you know it's it's not hard to see 200 300 400 billion of ARR at the end of this year at high market >> across all of the language models and you're talking specifically about the private language model companies maybe not Google which is including But I was excluding you know a lot of the returns to this GPU spend have come from you know better recommener systems at Facebook and Google Amazon better ad
[00:05:49] targeting better ad measurement. >> Sure. So I was excluding that and just narrowing it to LLMs which I think strictest possible definition and it seems like there's going to be a really strong ROI this year even excluding what are still some of the most economically important and profitable use cases for GPUs and AI infrastructure. I do think what Karpathi is working on recursive self-improvement is really important and
[00:06:19] unlocking that and continual learning you know maybe the two final frontiers for for AI and just the idea of recursive self-improvement that the model while it is training you know during a forward pass has input into its training or another model has input into the training I think that could be really powerful and I think Chimamoth's statistics of of you know 10xing every year you know might seem conservative if that
[00:06:54] comes to pass and then of course continual learning is the holy grail where the model learns from experiences the way humans do. >> Yeah. >> And that's something we haven't unlocked yet. And those those those two combined I think would um they might pull the future forward in a very real way. >> Yeah. And we have right now Enthropic has a decent lead on everybody else whether it's 3 months or 6 months. Obviously they're probably 6 12 months
[00:07:21] ahead of open source. Maybe they're three six nine months ahead of their contemporaries but they have a lead. You put Cararpathy in there Freedberg. Now you have Karpathy. He does recursive. And at some point, and it may have even occurred at anthropic, the AI is going to be improving the language model more than the humans in the loop are doing it. Obviously, they're orchestrating it, Freeberg. But at what point do we think
[00:07:50] this, let's call it super recursiveness occurs? When will we cross the recursive valley? And AI is doing more to build a language model than humans are. I'm not sure when this idea that you feed the whole model into a context window to train itself and build a new model is going to happen, but I think there's probably a lot of different architectural paths that could be walked here. One of which is this idea that you
[00:08:17] could make much smaller models and then create networks of smaller models that work together where you ultimately have less energy or less cost per token produced out of a aggregation of models than you did with one single large model. I've said this probably three or four times now. There's a lot of work and a lot of opportunity ahead in kind of rearchitecting models and rearchitecting how models work together
[00:08:42] to solve problems. My guess is a lot of leadership that that he can bring to exploring those paths and all it takes is a minor breakthrough and your cost per token drops in half. That's a tremendous efficiency gain that is seems very much on the horizon because some of the early papers I think I shared one from MIT a few weeks ago indicate that there's a lot of room to run here in terms of rearchitecting models and
[00:09:06] deployment of models. these very small uh models uh the small language models and then verticalized ones are the future. We've got a company Abocus that's doing it for corporations crushing it. Everybody's got an interest in doing this. And I don't know if you saw the news this week uh Chimoth it happened about two weeks ago very quietly Chrome included Gemini or Google included in their Chrome browser the Gemini Nano model
[00:09:32] without telling anybody. 4 gigabytes on your computer and that's the one that does like proof reading, spelling, autocomplete, all that. So now we have Google covertly installing this on everybody's operating system. >> Hold on, hold on. Covert's a strong word, so let's not use that word. >> Without telling people, without giving people a heads up, >> let's say it in a way that we can both agree. We're in the phase now where I think
[00:09:59] breathlessly talking about every model improvement is a waste of time. there's no ROI in it. We are on a path of accelerated learning and we're going to start to see enduser achievements that were here to for impossible. That should be the focus. So for example, we were able to solve I'm just collectively saying we in this case it was specifically open AI by the use of a human and this is important you know a math problem that
[00:10:29] stood outstanding not been solved for decades and decades I can tell you in a different example there are drug candidates that are about to enter clinical trials and INDs that were sitting on the shelf and people didn't think were very viable at So, we're at the phase now where these things are front and center. They're useful to people. They're increasingly valuable. I think what we should do now is focus on these end user
[00:10:56] use cases because the way that you say it, in my opinion, is part of the problem because it starts to create this boogeyman us versus them thing. And I'm not saying you're doing it on purpose, but I'm saying this is exactly why I think so many people are becoming sort of like it's a four-letter word now when you mention AI because it's presented as this thing. And I think we have to present the other side of it at least so
[00:11:20] that people have the data. So I don't think Google's in the business of doing or shady things. I don't they're not that company. There are other companies that would referring to your alma mada. >> I'm not going to say which ones. Okay. But Google is not that company. So I I think that the reason they did it was probably because there's user utility. And my point is we should focus on the user utility because I think that's the
[00:11:44] story worth telling from now on because I think we collectively, the four of us can responsibly tell both sides of the story in a well balanced way because I think nobody wins if we become bloodites and go back in time. >> Yeah. >> And I think that if we don't if we're not careful with our words, that's what will happen. >> Yeah. And by the way, uh obviously not a lite, but this is what you know has been reported by a lot of folks that people
[00:12:08] were surprised, shocked when they saw the size of the model being done in the background and it has triggered some uh people looking at it around privacy and I do agree that Google is not a bad actor in the space. So probably a speed arrow more than anything I would say. >> Maybe just add two things. Um there's attorney maxing and then there's attorney maxed and Google is probably attorney maxed. >> Yes. >> Yeah.
[00:12:39] >> And have been for a long time. And the second second thing I would say is I do think it's incumbent on all of us as Americans who are involved in the technology industry in one way or another >> to be advocates for a the positive optimistic possibilities that AI introduces to to everyone in this world because it it is starting to feel or seem like there may be a CCP funded campaign against AI and data centers in
[00:13:09] America. And that's very logical for China, but it is not good for America. And so I just I think it's it we all have responsibility is what I would say. >> Yeah. Who do you think's doing a poor job at that and responsible for this? Is it Daario with his constant, hey, everybody's going to lose their job? Who's responsible for this? Is it the CEOs blaming AI for their layoffs? What's your take on this, Gavin? Look at
[00:13:39] hold on a second. Everybody is trading their own book. It makes enormous sense for Daario to try to create the boundary conditions for a regulatory moat because he will be inside of the tent pissing out. He's big enough now. And if you notice that a lot of the breathlessness has ramped up and Jason, we've talked about this. You can annotate successive rounds of fundraising and successive scale with the volume. So, I think that
[00:14:08] it's a reasonable business strategy and I think that he's quite clever and I think that look, if you actually and I and I do this, if you actually just have a Nashbot, a Nash agent inside of Quad and you ask it what it would do, it would come up with this strategy. And meanwhile, there are other versions of other counter strategies and counterexloitative strategies. The point is that each CEO has a clear incentive.
[00:14:31] They're operating at such a level of scale that they're they're just reading their own book. >> So it's it's up to us to take a step back and actually see the forest from the trees. I think Nick, can you find this? There was a clip of Sham Sankar, friend of the pod, fabulous guy, the CTO of Palunteer, and he was I think he was on Fox News and he said, &quot;Stop breathlessly asking these model makers what they think.
[00:14:56] go to the end user and ask the person in the factory that's using the model and ask him what he or she thinks. Ask what the doctor thinks, ask what the scientist thinks and start to tell those stories. That's what we should be talking about. >> Yeah. And Gavin, you were I was sort of asking you your opinion on what's what's who's causing this and then what's the solution? Like do you do you have folks you think in the industry who are
[00:15:21] representing it particularly well? we can point out, hey, Elon has said we're going to move to a world of incredible abundance and working will be optional. I think that's on the margin a little scary for people to hear because they hear no job. But he does say, hey, universal basic income is probably going to have to come into, you know, place. He said that multiple times. You have Daario, according to Chimath talking his
[00:15:44] own book, scaring the be Jesus out of people in order to get regulatory capture. What do you think is going on here and how can we do better as an industry? >> I think Jimoth outlined like a very viable and positive path forward. We're just, you know, real people who are not, you know, at the tip of the spear. These are the positive impacts AI's had on my life. I was at a I was at I was at an event maybe 10 days ago and someone who
[00:16:13] runs a hedge fund, his daughter was born with a very rare genetic mutation that effectively would have normally condemned her to a life devoid of joy, meaning everything the neurons in her brain were not firing. So she wouldn't, you know, who knows what her life expectancy would have been or what the quality of her life would would have been. and it's it's a tragic disease. He said he didn't accept that as an
[00:16:41] answer. He found he did an enormous amount of research with LLMs and found an existing safe drug on the market that they thought would have a meaningful impact on his daughter's condition and it did. It took I think the percentage of times the neurods were firing was 30 or 40% and it took it up to 80 or 90%. And that means that she can live a normal life. She may not be as smart as she would have been, but she can live a
[00:17:08] normal life. And he's now figured out how to use AI, how to to further tailor that drug. And you know, there've been all sorts of advances in protein design, etc., etc. And he's reasonably confident he's going to have a drug in months that is a complete cure. And that's just one person, one dad who was unwilling to accept defeat for his daughter and who changed her life and the life of everyone else with that disease. And we
[00:17:39] tell those stories. So I think Elon's doing a good job. A future where work is optional. I think that sounds great to some people, you know, scary to others. You know, a 4-day work week, you know, I think is is probably something that sounds sounds good to a lot of people. I think Jensen is doing a good job of being an effective advocate. And I do think anyone who is trying to drive reggget I just we need to stay focused on the