[00:15:28] there's efficiency gains that's probably couple of points of GDP growth right there and so I'm very optimistic that there's going to be a pull uh and that we should as the United States given the technology stack we have uh in Europe in Asia in you know in South America in Africa and everywhere get it to be broadly deployed. >> You one of the questions I get asked a lot about the AI race is how do you know if you're winning or how do you know if
[00:15:57] the United States is ahead of its global competitors? And the answer I give is market share. You know, [clears throat] if we look around the world in 5 years and we see that American companies, American technology has say 80% market share, it means we did a good job. If we look around the world in five years and see that it's say Chinese chips and Chinese models that are being used all over the world, well means we probably
[00:16:20] lost. So you know ultimately usage is the proof of the pudding is in the eating of it. I mean the in this case the way that you know that you're succeeding is through market shares through usage. >> I and I I would agree with that. But David, since you even worked at Microsoft for a few years, um you you know, one of the things that I'm very grounded on is always uh that Bill Gates line of a platform, right? So, one of
[00:16:46] the things that I always think about is it's market share, but it's also ecosystem effects, right? See, what the United States always has done is not just about our market share or even um the revenues to US companies. In fact, one of the things I learned at Microsoft is whenever I did a country visit, the data I would first study is in let's say in the UK or in Switzerland or what have you is what is the total employment
[00:17:12] created in Switzerland uh in our channel that used to be like the number one thing uh in our country reports right and the total number >> that be like the number of IT workers the number >> office workers channel so channel partners we so number of ISVs uh who were there. So we used to have a complete marker of how did the ecosystem around the platform get built one country at a time and that is what the United States has always done. In fact
[00:17:41] the US tech stack >> including in China got built because others built around our tech stack the same thing is going to happen. So that's why I think the work you're doing around diffusion, >> right, >> is about really increasing the size of the pie, the trust in the platform so that there is true economic opportunity quite frankly. >> Well, you're right and and I remember actually you you brought back some memories from this is about a decade ago
[00:18:07] when my company Yammer was acquired by Microsoft. we were part of uh the SharePoint group and I remember that the um the product managers there were very proud of the fact that the revenue from the SharePoint ecosystem meaning non-Microsoft the um the consulting community the implementers who would go into companies implement SharePoint I think their revenue is something like seven times greater than Microsoft's own software
[00:18:33] revenue and I think >> in aggregate >> in aggregate and I think and I think Bill had a line about you're not an ecosystem or platform until the revenue on top of your platform is some, you know, factor of your own revenue. And and I and I think that I think what's really important about this is when we talk about diffusion and obviously want the United States to have this leading position, it doesn't mean it's bad for
[00:18:57] the rest of the world because they're able to build on top of those platforms and create even more value. >> 100%. In fact, that's sort of the most important point, right? So this is not that this is not about uh American tech um and America revenues to the United States. It's actually creating opportunity using a new platform everywhere. And in fact you know the you know like I remember I worked on our database products uh in the '90s u you
[00:19:22] know with SAP in fact the combination of uh SQL Server and R3 were successful on both sides. There's a lot talked about Intel and Microsoft, but one of the other things that I grew up in which has sort of been foundational in how I look at the world is what we did with a European software company that is still uh you know a giant. And so that you know who knows what the next big AI app will be and where and what will happen.
[00:19:47] But uh I I sort of go in with the attitude that there will be tech companies uh maybe even top five tech companies that could emerge everywhere with even the American tech stack. you have um done some amazing acquisitions and you're quite a dealmaker on top of being a technologist. It's probably the least reported aspect of your spectacular tenure and the massive growth you've had. But you did a deal with OpenAI and
[00:20:16] probably one of the most savvy slashcontroversial dealmakers of all time, Sam Alman. That deal was looked at as you you you're you're set up to get a windfall in cash which you don't need as Microsoft. always nice I'm guessing if they IPO but did you create potentially and this was the criticism of it an ultimate competitor to Microsoft and how do you think about that and how can Microsoft which missed Steve Bombber's
[00:20:45] biggest regret missing the mobile revolution how can you not have a Gemini an XAI a claude that is your own or in your mind do you have that because you have the source code of open AI >> yeah I think that that's right so when when people say uh where is your foundation model? I mean at the end of the day we do have the IP but that said I think you bring up a couple different things right one is to us the most
[00:21:09] important thing when I look at what is Microsoft's uh strategy today one is we want to build token factories right so our biggest business today is Azure business and the Azure business the TAM given what's going to happen is is so huge that we now need to be fantastic uh at building these token factories and um that's means a heterogeneous fleet of infrastructure and that every hyperscaler has always done which is use software to make
[00:21:35] maximum use of it and for TCO and utilization. So that's one side of it. Then there's the app server business right which is everybody we you talked about like if everyone's going to be building agents have infinite minds have these RL gyms have eval what have you there's an entire just like every platform has had an app server this one has an app server that's what we're doing with foundry and what have you
[00:21:57] right so there's an app server business in that app server one of the things that structurally now is pretty clear is anyone building any application or any company is going to use not one model but all the models Right? Why would I not? Right? Which is in fact I will orchestrate for any given task even multiple models. Right? There's this one nice thing that we came out in our healthcare practice called the decision
[00:22:21] orchestrator. What it proves is that by assigning roles, right? So investigator, data analyst, domain expert, just giving even prompted roles to models and then orchestrating them gets better results than any one single frontier model. Am I right to read into that then that you're bullish on the open- source models and think large language models will largely be commoditized and that's not where the value will occur. In fact, the way I
[00:22:49] think about it is that just like what happened >> and Apple thinks that too by the way. >> By the way, what the way you think about what happened in the database market, right? You know, I used to be like everything is just a SQL database until it was not, right? There was I mean, think about it. There dock databases, there is no SQL databases. The proliferation of databases, right? Who would have thought that the database
[00:23:10] market would have such a richness to it >> or that it could ever be open source? That was >> that's true. I mean talk about Postgress or what has happened even with which is open but there are even companies that have backed it and so so to me that's what's going to happen and to me a model is like the database market you know it's it's got it's going to differences but I sort of somehow think that uh it's not there are
[00:23:31] definitely going to be frontier models that are closed source you know there going to be open source models that are going to be uh uh frontier class in fact if anything I think in this next year what'll be probably a big part of the discussion is what's the future of a firm? A firm should be able to take the tacet knowledge it has and embed it inside a weights in a model that they control. Right? So when somebody asks me
[00:24:00] how many models should be there, I'll say as many models as firms in the world. Right? That's sort of the an extreme way. Uh because because to me that's how I think this you know this knowledge economy becomes an AI economy. >> Are you secretly and you can say it here since we're on allin working on an LLM to exist on the Windows desktop because that you are you have it like today there's a five silica model which is
[00:24:26] completely resident using NPUs and of course using uh GPUs in fact the largest installation um of high power in fact it's one of the fascinating the workstation is back I'm one of the most if you went to see >> which is great for Microsoft because you you have a nice desktop business. >> Absolutely. And so we and in fact we think that that form factor especially I mean I I always say this which is u you know I started my career on a command
[00:24:53] line. Who knows I may just end it in a command line. >> Well you started at Sun which was the original 5 $10,000 workstation. Do you see a time where you'll be meeting with your customers here and advocating a 10 $20,000 desktop machine that has an LLM and the hardware? You can you can put a DGX card and you can have like just a fantastic machine and the models I and by the way you know we are one architecture tweak away from even having
[00:25:19] some kind of a distributed model architecture right even ane architecture that shows knows how to really distribute itself right that's the type of breakthrough that can completely change uh what hybrid AI may look like but we're absolutely committed and focused on making the PC a great place for local models uh and local models that then do even a lot of the prompt processing and call into the cloud, right? So there's a whole lot of work
[00:25:46] that can happen and that's sort of definitely something that's underway. >> Yeah, I think that the cloud co-work has kind of shown the power of tapping into the local file drive and be able to use that. That that brings up another point. you you got me thinking about Yammer and for people who don't know um you know Yammer's claim to fame this is about 15 years ago was that it pioneered a lot of um well it used a lot of consumer growth
[00:26:06] tactics to attack enterprise software I'm wondering as you think about enterprise adoption of AI how do you think it's going to spread over the next year it feels like we're at sort of a a a critical point do you think it's going to be top down is it going to come from the CEO directing a team giving them a strategic transformation project and they're going to do an RFP or do you think it's going to spread bottom up in the enterprise through AI
[00:26:33] native employees who are adaptable who are using the tools in their own lives and they start to bring these things to work and start accomplishing amazing things. >> Yeah. No, I think you know like all things David I think it's both the top down bottom up right. uh the that the reason I say that top down is if I look at the ROI uh of uh applying AI in customer service uh or in supply chain or in HR self-service those are the easy
[00:27:00] projects where uh IT and CXOs can make calls and that's where you'll see the first drop of uh real AI adoption but the bottom up is what ultimately will happen right I mean with even with the PCs in fact if you think back at the lawyers brought word in and then finance bought Excel in and then email came and then it became standard issue. That's what's happening right now. So for example, these agents when I sort of
[00:27:27] talk about everybody's building agents, they are figuring out a way to go create these things that are changing workflow and removing drudgery in their work. Right? That's sort of the beginning of what is a bottomup transformation. Um I you I was in fact the thing that I'm most excited about is this bottomup change even at Microsoft for example we manage something like 500 odd fiber operators around the world in in Azure
[00:27:55] today and by the way I not myself realized it a lot of it you know it's called DevOps but it's a it's a physical asset things get cut and when you sort of say DevOps that means you literally are emailing people and saying hey what happened to that fiber cut how do we repair it so there's a lot of back and forth so this network the the person who runs our global network basically has built to your point about these person
[00:28:18] they're just digital employees essentially that are doing all of that devops uh and so that's and there's a completely bottoms up uh where you see the tools it's kind of like hey I have the new way to build agents it's there I'm going to use it to create levels of automation uh that remove drudgery improve efficiency improve quality and that ultimately is a skilling thing which is sort of the big issue which is
[00:28:44] um and skilling is not mystical it's just by doing right so it's not like I go to a class per se it's like the diffusion of the tools uh and using the tools and that I think is what's really going to be happening >> and and we're in a very interesting moment empowering an existing employee with these tools is so much easier than hiring and mentoring and bringing up the next generation so it feels like we're in a little bit of an indigestion moment
[00:29:11] at Microsoft, do you think who's going to have my job >> in 30 or 40 years, if the company stays the same size? Because given your technology first approach, there's really no reason to ever add another Microsoft employee at the pace this is going and you haven't for four years. So, how you may have swapped some in and out and changed the texture of it. So, how do you think about maybe this next generation? What advice would you have
[00:29:39] for these college graduates who maybe don't have an offer for Microsoft right now? And you used to spend a lot of time on that building that group, but maybe you don't have that luxury now. Do you think about it ever? >> No, I I mean it's a great question. I you know there's a little bit of a debate what happens to early in career and how is college recruiting. I still am a big believer in uh college recruiting because at the end of the day
[00:30:01] um this is going to change the curve by which anyone can pick up proficiency in a codebase. Let's just it takes sort of just regular CS hiring. uh what has changed is perhaps for someone who comes in new into a team and to be able to ramp up thanks to all of uh the markdowns, the skills, uh the fact that I can go ask the agent. I mean, think about it, right? It's like having an unbelievable mentor who is getting you
[00:30:34] onboarded onto a codebase faster. So in some sense the productivity curve uh of a college hire is going to be much steeper than it ever before. So I think there might be a difference. In fact, one of the things we're experimenting with is a different type of apprenticeship, right? Which is you take somebody who's an IC senior dev have like a cohort of college uh hires working with them because it's a new way
[00:30:59] of working. It's like I remember like all you know everybody who joined Microsoft would say go how how did you know whatever um Cutler implement Malik or what have you right he would go try to read uh his code to understand uh what great craftsmanship looks like nowadays I think that great craftsmanship uh comes by looking at even how the 10x 100x engineers use AI to build great quality products uh and that is what these new college grads
[00:31:28] will learn and learn faster and so that's a beneficial thing for a company like us because at the end of the day you know until we saw longevity or something we need people to come into the workforce be successful at Microsoft so we are very committed but we are also making sure that the scopes of the jobs make sense for what the aspirations of people are going to be both who are currently in the workforce and people
[00:31:51] who are entering the workforce. Okay, on that note, Sache Nadella, >> thank you so much. [applause]