[00:00:00] All right, everybody. We're thrilled to have the one, the only Tata Nadella here, the third CEO of Microsoft for a uh impromptu fireside chat with David Saxs, Arzar of AI and crypto. Satia third, CEO of Microsoft, born in India. What an incredible story. came here right after college and uh you had a little round trip to pick up your wife in your book to to bring her here. Tell everybody briefly uh how that occurred.
[00:00:35] >> Well um uh you know so that's that's a great story of uh the uh the labyrinth that is the immigration policies of the United States I think. Um I my wife and I went to college together in India. I came here for grad school. We then got married. Uh I got my green card. Um and she couldn't come join because we got married. So the story goes basically I had to give up my green card. So the funny thing is I went to the American
[00:01:08] embassy in Delhi >> and I said where's the line to give up my green card? And they said there is no such line. Um >> that would be a crazy thing to do in the '9s. So it was a strange thing to give up your green card, get an H1 so that she could join, but it all worked out. So um you know it's a long lost memory but it was you know a way to work around it. Um I wanted to ask you uh having launched a co-pilot first with GitHub
[00:01:38] then having a co-pilot on the desktop. You made a very bold move for Microsoft to put that in the Windows product, which I use every day, on the desktop, but you did that before it really could recognize the file system and interact with applications. Got a little bit of a lukewarm reception, but now you've been doubling down, doubling down, and there seems to be, in my estimation, three modalities for knowledge workers.
[00:02:02] Elon's building at XAI, what they're calling a human emulator, if you saw that leak this week. Yeah. uh where they're just building employees and just putting them into their chat rooms and email. Then you have Claude came out with co-work this week. Incredibly powerful. People are kind of losing their minds over it. I've been playing with it for the last 40 hours. Truly impressive. What's your vision for Microsoft and how
[00:02:27] knowledge workers will actually put this to use because there seems to be a gap between you know playing around with chatbt and getting some interesting results and getting business results. >> Yeah. So I think it one of the most um perhaps illustrative examples um of trying to understand these various form factors is looking at coding which is obviously a form of knowledge work or uh probably the best example of knowledge
[00:02:52] work and if you think about the journey coding has been it started with u essentially uh uh the next edit suggest right that was the first time in fact my own belief in this entire uh generation of tech really sort of got formulated where I started seeing I think it was G you know there's a codeex model back in the day it was preGPT35 uh that's when next edits started working with some real accuracy then we went to chat then we went to actions and
[00:03:23] now to full autonomous agents and then the autonomous agents can be both foreground background in the cloud or local right so that's all the form factors that exist today when you're coding and interestingly If you look at it, you use all of them, right? It's not like there's only one form factor. So that's I think probably one of the other lessons. So for example, when I'm in a CLI, I can you go a foreground agent,
[00:03:47] background agent, and then just literally go edit in VS Code, right? There all happening in parallel, right? So that sort of shows how these form factors even composed. So then you bring that to knowledge work to your point. We started with chat. chat with reasoning sort of goes beyond just request response because you now have that chain of thought uh where you can see it work now they're actions right essentially
[00:04:16] either through computer use or through uh AP you know basically skills uh and agent calls so you can do actions so that's kind of the state of the copilot today now there is a way to think about you know the the theory of the mind evolution Right? Because you need like if you remember you know Jobs had the best line I would say for PCs or computers was to say if you it's a bicycle for the mind. Bill had a line
[00:04:44] which I liked as well which was it's information at your fingertips. We kind of need now a new concept metaphor for how we use computers in the AI age. And you have one >> and the one I like actually came from the CEO of notion which I you know that manager of >> incredible product. Yeah. >> You haven't bought it yet? I've not got that. Uh but the it's both management of you know basically a manager of infinite minds. That's a
[00:05:11] nice way to think about it right when you sort of really look at all the agents that you are working with. You kind of need to understand what I in fact the other term I like is we macro delegate and micro steer. In fact you kind of need that in in in coding you kind of have it right. So you do a macro delegation and then I can in parallel give it instructions while it is doing work. So that's sort of the state even
[00:05:37] today of co-pilot or what have you. you bring up a little bit of what one of one of the form factors I'm very excited about and you'll see us even in the next week even uh do things is while I'm sitting in GitHub copilot what it's not as if software developers sit in isolation right it's not like the only thing I work on is my repo I attend meetings um I write specs or others have written specs that I'm implementing uh I
[00:06:04] need to have my repo be consistent with that so that means using either a straightforward MCP server or a skill I want to be able to call into my work IQ which is the co-pilot bring that in that's the type of composition uh of knowledge work that'll happen same thing with security say you're a security professional you have lots of logs uh how do you sort of really analyze them you drop them into a file system then
[00:06:30] write code on top of it create a dashboard what have you those are the types of knowledge work that we can enable there I think you bring up one more thing which is can you create quote unquote digital employees digital co-workers or what have you and it's all about credentials right so the I today you could like you can literally assign >> are you working on that as well >> yeah so in fact we introduced something
[00:06:50] called agent 365 as a way to give identities in fact extending the identities we have for humans today uh and the endpoint protection we have for their compute devices to agents so >> so you might clone me working in the HR department or working in the marketing department and have a virtual correct >> version of me inside of office. >> That's correct. So, so there are two sort of modalities there. One is you
[00:07:13] give every knowledge worker infinite minds. That's kind of one and then you create even infinite minds independent of the your identity because the identity is one of the key things you got to get right even for it to work right. Right. So >> permissions >> and decision making >> permissions decision- making and like one of the key in things is who did what to whom is sort of the most important query in an organization right at the
[00:07:38] end of the day the organization needs to understand what work got done h and what's the provenence of that work uh and how do you trace it back right so therefore you kind of want either what if it's a human with a lot of agents then it's really macro delegation micro steering by the human whose identity was passed on. So it's delegation versus a separate identity. >> And that was done by a level of management, product management that
[00:08:05] you've eliminated, that Alphabets eliminated. Meta has started to eliminate in their organization four years ago. You had the same number of employees you have at Microsoft now, but you put a $90 billion onto the top line of the revenue in that time and you doubled your income during that time. So how did that happen? Is that automation of those jobs? Is it you were a little bit overstaffed? >> Unpack. >> I think it's it's actually you're
[00:08:33] pulling on a very interesting thread which is at some level what's the big structural change that needs to happen. In fact, I would say this is probably the biggest change in knowledge work since PCs. I mean I always you know think about like how did work happen precise right? I mean think about a multinational company like ours trying to do a forecast. uh right faxes went around, inter office memos got sent and
[00:08:58] then you kind of created a you know uh a forecast then suddenly you know PCs became standard issue uh you put an Excel spreadsheet put some numbers sent it in email everybody entered numbers and you had a forecast so the work the work artifact and the workflow all changed that's what's happening so for example I'll give you uh at LinkedIn uh we used to have product managers we had designers uh we had front-end
[00:09:24] engineers and then we had CIS backend engineers and so on. So what we did is we sort of took those first four roles and combined them in fact increased scope and said let's they're all full stack builders. So I like that because that's a structural change that allows for us to increase the change both the work and the workflow between these functions and I would assume the velocity because you don't have four
[00:09:48] people communicating and that throughput of ideas it's just one person and vibe coding. Exactly. And there's a new workflow. So what at the same time as you can imagine if to build an AI product today there's a complete new workflow right it starts with eval right so basically there's this eval to science to infrastructure and so eval are done by these full stack builders and what have you and product managers
[00:10:12] in the new form the infrastructure is built by the systems engineers at the back end because they support the science that supports the product. So in some sense there's a new loop uh and you have to structurally change and so a lot of what is happening inside a tech is that change uh which is I think going to be pretty massive uh and at the same time a company like ours I have to do everything. It's not like I can just so
[00:10:36] go live in the future. I have to make sure we're doing a fantastic job of doing hot patching on Windows is done with quality uh while at the same time building the evals that are improving co-pilot quality. Right? And so both of those have to be first class. >> I assume this is the most challenging moment of your career because Microsoft was so dominant duopoly in some spaces. Um but you really weren't up against the
[00:11:01] competition level you're up against now. I was talking to Elon, you know, and he was sort of saying, well, building cars was pretty easy. Uh because I was up against the legacy car makers and now I'm up against just look at the set you're up against. Yeah, it's it's a pretty intense time. I mean, so the way I I I always think is it's always helpful uh when you have a complete new set of competitors every decade because that keeps you fit. Uh if
[00:11:28] you think about it, I joined uh Microsoft in '92 when I had Noel as the big existential competitor we had. Um and here we are in 2026. Uh and it you're absolutely right, it's a pretty intense time. I'm glad there's the competition. uh it's it's quite honestly at the end of the day when I look at it right as a percentage of GDP 5 years from now where will tech be right uh it will be higher so we're blessed to be in
[00:11:55] this industry it's lot of intense competition but it's not so zero sum as some people make it out >> it's getting much bigger >> much the TAM and the you know just the impact of this tech is going to be so massive um the question then of course is what is like I I always go back to what's the brand identity Microsoft has brand permission. We have what do customers expect from us. It's sometimes we kind of overthink somehow that every
[00:12:22] customer wants the same thing from all of the competitors and finding that out, right? It's kind of a different take on the Peter Theal thing which is you got to avoid competition by really understanding what customers really want from you uh versus thinking everybody's a competitor. >> David. >> Yeah. So there are a lot of heads of state here obviously at Davos as well as CEOs of Fortune 500 companies and I think you got asked a question last
[00:12:48] night at the dinner about how they should think about AI and how to be successful and I recall they used the word diffusion and I was wondering if you could expand on those remarks because that really resonated with some of the policy work I've been doing. >> No, absolutely. In fact, uh what you all have been doing to make sure in in this context of the American tech stack um is broadly used around the world and is
[00:13:12] trusted around the world because I think uh when I look back David to me um uh at the end of the day you create the technology but really the benefits come only by intense use. In fact, one of my favorite studies has always been this work that uh an economist I think out of Dartmouth did uh his name is Diego Comman where he studied uh basically what happened during the industrial revolution um how did countries get ahead? Um and the simple
[00:13:46] sort of takeaway from that was any country uh that brought the latest technology into their uh country and then did value add technology on top of it. Right? So it's like don't reinvent the wheel. Bring the latest and then build on top of it. That's to me uh what happens you know when you have diffusion. So especially with general purpose technologies like AI it needs to spread like right in our you know in our
[00:14:11] own country in the United States we now need we have the tech. The question is is it being used in healthcare? Is it being used um in financial services? Is it being used in every sector of the economy by large businesses, small business, public sector? Um so to me un unless and until we see that diffusion and intense use uh we're not going to have the success. Um uh and so that's the phase we are in it's f you know it's
[00:14:37] diffusing faster um and so some of the work policy work you have done um and in general all you know the good news here is the technologies there the rails around cloud and mobile that were laid out make it possible for this thing to spread right it's not you know impossible to get the tokens the question is what are the use cases how do and how do you manage the change in all of that um you know like one of the
[00:15:01] questions at least in Davos is it's one for the west and the developed nations. What about the global south? Um I think global south has a huge opportunity too quite frankly because to me like let's say you know 40% 50% of the GDP of most global south countries is public sector. So just imagine this tech making a difference in how the governments uh really parlay their taxpayer money into services for citizens and there's if
[00:15:28] there's efficiency gains that's probably couple of points of GDP growth right there and so I'm very optimistic that there's going to be a pull uh and that we should as the United States given the technology stack we have uh in Europe in Asia in you know in South America in Africa and everywhere get it to be broadly deployed. >> You one of the questions I get asked a lot about the AI race is how do you know if you're winning or how do you know if
[00:15:57] the United States is ahead of its global competitors? And the answer I give is market share. You know, [clears throat] if we look around the world in 5 years and we see that American companies, American technology has say 80% market share, it means we did a good job. If we look around the world in five years and see that it's say Chinese chips and Chinese models that are being used all over the world, well means we probably
[00:16:20] lost. So you know ultimately usage is the proof of the pudding is in the eating of it. I mean the in this case the way that you know that you're succeeding is through market shares through usage. >> I and I I would agree with that. But David, since you even worked at Microsoft for a few years, um you you know, one of the things that I'm very grounded on is always uh that Bill Gates line of a platform, right? So, one of
[00:16:46] the things that I always think about is it's market share, but it's also ecosystem effects, right? See, what the United States always has done is not just about our market share or even um the revenues to US companies. In fact, one of the things I learned at Microsoft is whenever I did a country visit, the data I would first study is in let's say in the UK or in Switzerland or what have you is what is the total employment
[00:17:12] created in Switzerland uh in our channel that used to be like the number one thing uh in our country reports right and the total number >> that be like the number of IT workers the number >> office workers channel so channel partners we so number of ISVs uh who were there. So we used to have a complete marker of how did the ecosystem around the platform get built one country at a time and that is what the United States has always done. In fact
[00:17:41] the US tech stack >> including in China got built because others built around our tech stack the same thing is going to happen. So that's why I think the work you're doing around diffusion, >> right, >> is about really increasing the size of the pie, the trust in the platform so that there is true economic opportunity quite frankly. >> Well, you're right and and I remember actually you you brought back some memories from this is about a decade ago