[01:22:58] could right now. 3, 2, net worth. now it looks like Biden's going to win. Trump's Trump's been knocked off his game. And And let me me to say like I I think the the problem that Trump has right now is he's a salesman without a sales pitch. Um you know, you you go back to the State of the Union pre-COVID. He had it all worked out. He was going to run on the greatest economy ever, keep America great. That issue's been taken away from
[01:23:20] him and it seems like he's still trying to regain his footing. He's trying to figure out what to run on. And the fact that he can't do these rallies, which were really, you know, the fact that he was able to go in 2016 to these swing states, he would be, you know, flying around on his plane and and and you three he did three rallies a day in these swing states with tens of thousands of people. it. He wanted to win.
[01:23:41] It was it it was it was that and it gave him a way to go over the heads of the media and speak directly to the people and then those people talked to other people. There's a lot of word of mouth. Um and so he the inability for him to hold those rallies, I think it's just been um devastating for the type of campaigning that he likes to do. And so, in a weird way we have less than 100 days to the election, but it feels like the campaign
[01:24:03] hasn't really started yet because Trump can't do rallies and Biden hasn't left his basement. Okay, Chamath. Entire net worth on the line. All SPACs. SPAC B, SPAC C, SPAC D, whatever you got SPAC'd up. All your SPACs on the line. Everything. The Warriors position. 3, 2, net worth. We don't need to guess, but I'll tell you why. Um you know, uh we had a 33% drop in GDP. We have double digit unemployment. And I think Trump's
[01:24:38] real path to winning the White House, which we talked about before, was getting an enormous stimulus bill passed and he didn't force the Republican Senate to the table to make sure that these unemployment benefits didn't roll off. Now, there's a very practical problem with these unemployment benefits, which is that it is not administered at the federal level. It's administered by literally 50 state agencies that run relatively decrepit
[01:25:05] software. Now, just so you guys know, why do we pick $600? It was an estimated numerical average because what the Republicans really wanted to do was just top it up. You know, whatever you used to get to get to 100 and it was technically not feasible to implement across 50 different Right. So, somebody in Boise, Idaho is different than somebody in New York. So, they they were like, "Ah, 600 bucks." So, my point is uh it's going to
[01:25:31] take 4 to 8 weeks to re-implement unemployment insurance once we decide what we're going to do. So, that basically, if you started today, puts you somewhere between September 1 and October 1. And the you know, so you have then 30 days to basically catch a positive tailwind or 60 days. So, call it midpoint 45 days. You know, you have now federal eviction laws that are rolling off. So, I think that it's setting itself up for a diff- very
[01:26:00] difficult path. Um he just stopped spending, I believe, in Michigan, Trump did. Um which is, you know, not a good sign. Um he actually has overspent in Georgia. Um so, if you look at the facts on the ground, Your entire net worth goes on? No, it's Biden. It's a it's a languishing campaign as of today. David is right. He's a salesman without a pitch and unfortunately, he's a the path isn't clear. The path should have been
[01:26:29] paved with money. It's such a no-brainer. Here, let me let me give you one last poll. that money, too, and why would you stop printing the money? If you gave everybody $1,200 and 6 weeks of unemployment, why not just do it for another 6 weeks and give everybody another 1,200? I don't understand why that's such a difficult decision for Trump. Friedberg, go. Let me give you a scary poll that just came out by YouGov.
[01:26:52] It says um 55% of supporters of Donald Trump say that they will not accept the election victory of Joe Biden if mail-in uh votes are are are allowed. Wow. So, you know, the the framing of this is actually a little bit more serious than just who's going to win. There is a further polarization, constitutional crisis question, rioting, you know, whatever, disregard for the election entirely kind of moment coming up here
[01:27:19] because Trump and others have kind of framed this as such a non-election election because it's all fake and it's all fake news and it you know, this is all part of the conspiracy. So, there is something scary brewing, I think. And that that's what I'm kind of most interested in tracking is really where does this all go? Percentage chance that we get to a constitutional crisis and Trump says I'm not leaving the White House on a
[01:27:40] percentage basis, Friedberg. I don't think he'll say I'm not leaving the White House. I think he's going to be [ __ ] happy to go back to wherever he's going to go. Um yeah, but I think it's it's it's I think there's going to be other ramifications that are worth us figuring out and thinking about because that's the scary stuff that's coming next. Okay. That's a good 25% chance of a constitutional crisis. I think if the
[01:27:59] election's close, we could easily have like a Gore v. Bush type situation. Um it could be very damaging for for the republic. I do not think there'll be a hanging chad issue in this election. This is going to be one way or the other incredibly decisive on an electoral college level. Okay, final Final It's not set up for it to be that that close. Okay. I I don't think the election is Right now it's not trending to be close at all. It's
[01:28:24] trending to be a blowout. And so, I think we'll avoid the the crisis because it's not close and it looks like Biden's going to run away with it. But if it does get super close, um you know, I could imagine there being a crisis based on people not accepting the If the margin of error is within the margin of these mail-in ballots and you have, you know, 30, 40% of the population saying they're not going to accept it, um I'm
[01:28:47] I'm not saying we'll have like a legal crisis, but I think you could have a legitimacy crisis. It could be very bad for the republic. Uh not as bad as Trump's presidency, clearly. Uh so, uh final question, final final question. If Trump believes he's not going to win and he's essentially given up right now, which it feels like he's kind of given up, what would do you think who would win if Trump says, "Nikki Haley and Pence can
[01:29:12] run. I've done such an amazing job. I've been the best president in the history of the Union, but I want to get back to my life and I think Pence, Nikki Haley should go for it. What happens and who wins? Sachs. Too late for that? It's too late for that. You can't You can't put Pence and Nikki Haley on the ballot. Why not? Of course you can. If he says, "I'm feeling under it." If he bows out, the Republicans would
[01:29:35] have to pick a successor. It's not a new third party. The Republicans would be allowed to pick a successor. If he said, "I'm not doing it for uh you know, health reasons." Whatever the reason he comes up with. Who wins? Nikki Haley? No. Too silly? I think he might drop out. I think there I'm putting it out there. I think it's a 5% chance he doesn't want to be demolished and he says, "You know what? I'll take the deal. You agree to not
[01:29:58] prosecute me getting out of here. Uh I'll take it and and I changed I changed my bet to Joe Biden. I've changed my bet. After this after you risked your whole net worth, you changed to Joe Biden? Well, he's he's clearly the favorite right now and the question is whether there's still time for there to be a change. I mean, honestly, I think we should stop betting on what the outcome is. I think it's stupid. I think what we were should really be
[01:30:20] worried about is what what are we doing like letting tens of millions of Americans roll off of unemployment insurance with zero like the Republican Senate went on vacation. It's ridiculous. I mean, they should all be fired. It's It's the craziest thing. We have the biggest crisis in our lifetime. If you roll up the last three crises, 9/11, dot-com bust, and the Great Recession, those three pale in comparison to the magnitude of this one
[01:30:50] and these [ __ ] are going on vacation. I agree with you. It's outrageous. I I don't think partisan politics are that interesting, but um I I think they will eventually pass a bill. I think um the the the issue on the unemployment is not that the Republicans don't support an extension of unemployment, but the the magnitude of the unemployment now um exceeds what workers would get if they went back to work. And so, I think
[01:31:13] they're concerned about creating a disincentive for for workers going back to work. Why not split the not make it $300? Honestly, there's such fake [ __ ] news. Like it's like it has been shown that people then end up spending that money. Like I don't know if you guys saw, but like there are industries that are posting It's not just Facebook, Amazon, and Google posting meat and beats like you wouldn't believe in
[01:31:35] boating, in housing. People are spending this money. It drives GDP. So, whether you put 600 or 200 or 1,200 into people's pockets, they have a proclivity to spend it. They should have gotten something done. Trump Trump as well as all the Republicans are up for re-election, I think, would just cave on this issue. And I I I think it will get done. The The Republicans who are opposing it are the ones who aren't up for re-election
[01:31:59] and are concerned about debt. You know, that's the that's the that's the concern that all of a sudden people have. if we go into a depression, David? Why not the incremental 6 weeks of unemployment? Put it at $300, but get something done, David. Why are you not getting something done, David? Why is your team [ __ ] this up, David? Yeah, I don't I don't wear a jersey. I'm not on a team. But I I think they will get something
[01:32:26] done. I mean, I'm not I'm not defending this. do you think they should have gone on vacation? They're gone. They're on vacation, David. They can't. They got to come back to work. These guys went duck hunting instead of taking care of the 15 million. Your team went duck hunting. D.C. Obviously, there's a lot of There's enough Republicans who want to get something done. I mean, why not blame the Democrats for being too
[01:32:47] intransigent? Sorry, what I'm saying is it's not Republicans. I'm saying the entire Senate is We're breaking your chops, Sachs. The The entire group should not have gone on vacation. The entire half half of half of the Congress is gone. They're not to be found. Where are they? What What are they doing that's more important? Maybe they're hanging out in their basement like like Biden. I love you guys. All right. Everybody
[01:33:11] stay safe uh on behalf of the dictator himself, Bestie C, the the uh SPAC Meister himself, stay safe, Chamath. On behalf of the queen of quinoa, the Friedberg himself, uh stay safe, David Friedberg, uh in whichever one of your three houses you're in right now. And
[01:33:38] And to Rain Man, he's definitely B- Burn that don't burn, baby. He's definitely a great driver in the driveway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely still Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's definitely investing Wapner. Wapner. And of course he has the fish sticks. And of course he's still investing from Kraft. Certainly Kraft funds still investing. We'll see you all next time on the sixth most popular podcast out of the gate. Let's see.
[01:34:02] Maybe if you tell your friends about this podcast, we'll go to number one on the technology list. Uh love you boys. Stay safe. Can't wait to play poker. Bye. Great job, everybody.