[00:14:12] to say, "Oh, you know what, Facebook, I didn't like the acquisition you did 10 years ago basically because it worked. And so, I'm going to punish you 10 years later." That's crazy. That's stupid. In the rearview mirror, no no good. Yeah. A more reasonable place to be is to say, "Okay, this thing, meaning communications writ large, has become a critical piece of societal infrastructure and we are trying to figure out now what the rules should be.
[00:14:35] And rules shouldn't be brittle. Rules should be evolutionary. They should map, you know, to the moral decisions and ideas and frameworks of the time. And so, you know, uh we have to figure out, for example, number one, interoperability. So, how can you message across all these multiple networks? You know, another simple example, uh you know, we legislated the ability for emergency services to be able to send a message on your mobile
[00:15:00] phone line and your landline. You should probably be able to have a backdoor into all the messaging networks simply for that reason. So, the point is that, you know, there are all kinds of things you can do today to make this infrastructure layer of society operate in a more predictable way on behalf of What was your best You have a Have you thought about a regulation, and let's stick to Facebook and then we'll go to
[00:15:23] Amazon. Chamath, have you thought about a regulation that would make sense to Facebook, whether it's divesting an asset or maybe a certain percentage of usage or allowing Facebook Messenger to work with iMessage to work with, you know, Twitter DMs? I'll answer it in a different way. So, look, I mean, for 20 years I've run these kind of businesses. Like from from Winamp to AIM and ICQ to then, you know, at Facebook. And so, um you know, I
[00:15:50] remember in at AIM and ICQ, we, you know, did all this hand ringing and all these meetings between us and Microsoft and Yahoo to make our messaging networks interoperate. And, you know, eventually we were basically just cut off at the knees because other people just moved around us and eventually it all just morphed anyways away from uh these sort of brittle messaging networks. My my kind of view is that I don't I I think what's best for Facebook
[00:16:18] is a status quo. And so, you know, uh if if if if they can basically And by the way, I think the strategy is and and Mark wrote this in his manifesto, but a couple of years ago, you know, this is sort of what led to Chris Cox resigning if I'm playing, you know, sort of like conspiracy theorist. If you read Zuck's manifesto, what he was basically saying is, "Listen, we're going to take all these product and we're going to take all that
[00:16:40] code and we're going to mesh them all together in such a complicated, convoluted mess that if and when somebody ever tells us to rip it apart, it'll take another five or 10 years to do it." And that's effectively the technical read on that manifesto. It's just like you're going to make it technically impossible to uh unthread these things as independent entities. and your the thesis is that's a strategy against an antitrust breakup. I I I I
[00:17:04] find that I know, I just think it's a really smart strategy. I mean, he wrote it and he published it online. So, it's not like he's hiding anything. He made it I mean, it's just the beautiful part about it. He made it completely in the clear. Now, uh so, that's that's the strategy is to basically make it one monolithic code base. So, that if and when I think I don't I'm not sure if this is the intention, but frankly, if and when
[00:17:25] somebody knocked on the door and said, "Hey, you need to strip apart WhatsApp and Messenger and Instagram," you can say, "Well, look, it's it's one monolithic code base of, you know, 50 million lines of code. It'll take me 10 years, but sure, I'll figure it out somehow." So, you know, I think what's good for Facebook is a status quo. Now, that's different from what's good for politicians and then what's different
[00:17:45] for consumers. I think what's good for consumers is fundamental interoperability. Now, this is then what touches, you know, Android and Apple as well. Like the idea today that you cannot have a group text message that can only include iPhones, you know, on the off chance one of your friends has an Android phone, you're basically [ __ ] It's kind of crazy. 6 months on our group. That Freeberg, what do you think uh in terms of Facebook and any
[00:18:14] potential action that could be taken or any possible solution to them having such a dominant position? Cuz they are the only one of the four that has a dominant position. I would think about the um uh you know, how these businesses are are kind of built, right? There in all these businesses, there's an infrastructure layer. The infrastructure layer in the case of Google and Facebook is is is reasonably similar. It's it's a
[00:18:43] bunch of data centers and and hardware and software infrastructure to run all of their services on top. And then on top, there are uh consumer products. And then there are advertising products in the and the customer base for the consumer products is obviously users and the you know, customer base for the advertising products is these advertisers that pay to access these consumers and give them ads and get clicks from them and sell them stuff.
[00:19:07] Um And and so, if you think about what do you pull out, um it it sounds like on the Google side, there's um there's there's concern both on the advertising and on the consumer products that are being offered and the scale and the leverage that Google has and how they make those products kind of come to market. Um and with Facebook, it's really about this absolute kind of monopoly on um you know, on social products and services, whereas Google's
[00:19:33] got this great monopoly on on search products for consumers. So, um you could kind of take a layman's view and say, "Hey, like rip out WhatsApp and rip out um uh Instagram and, you know, then Facebook is good." But, the problem is in that infrastructure layer, they've created the social graph and this connection between, you know, all the people that you know and they've got all this stuff sitting on the same servers
[00:19:55] and Chamath points out all the same code base and there's a lot of commonality there. So, the reality of like ripping something out from there is a lot more nuanced and a lot more challenging than just saying hey you got to get rid of WhatsApp or you've got to get rid of Instagram and it's more likely some sort of Chinese wall situation where you end up with a a negotiated exit, continued ownership and control but you know
[00:20:18] almost like what happened with the banks in the 80s if you kind of got to separate one side of the business from the other. That could be one way that this goes because you know it's really hard to kind of break apart given the way that these businesses are built. What do you think about a solution David in which they conceded hey we're not going to buy any more of these competing social networks which I think
[00:20:39] would be kind of hard for them to buy one right now. I think that's done. I mean like you can even see that Google Fitbit. I mean Fitbit is you know what is it a 1.2 or 3 billion dollar acquisition? It's going to take almost 2 years to close and Google's already making concessions, antitrust concessions to the EU. Right. For you know this is a 1 trillion dollar company trying to buy a 1 billion dollar company. So,
[00:21:01] I think large acquisition and M&A by the big four it's impossible. Is that good for society Chamath or bad for society? Is it good for our business of investing in startups or is it bad for us investing in startups? Well, I I think it's good in one very important way which is that it forces the capital markets to support these companies and what I mean by that is you know I I I told you guys a couple times but in the year 2000 there was
[00:21:26] 8000 public companies. In the year 2020, July 2020 as we sit there, August 2020 there's about 4000. So, we've seen a shrinking of 50% of the number of public companies. So, the idea that there isn't an M&A on-ramp anymore means that more capital and the capital markets will become more fluid and we will support emerging growth companies in the public markets is my suspicion. If only there was yeah if only there was an easy way
[00:21:55] for these companies to get public. Go ahead David respond. Well, I I was I mean I I I think that um I I think you're raising the right issue which is um the chilling effect on M&A that these hearings are going to have um even if Facebook is never broken up or or that deal is sort of retroactively challenged um the the the big four tech companies have to be looking at these hearings and now they're going to be
[00:22:19] second-guessing every acquisition they want to make and it's going to have a chilling effect and I I think that's a disaster for Silicon Valley um because we know that most of the startups don't work um and you know uh and there's really only you know most of them go out of business and there's only two good exits. One is an IPO, the other is M&A. And if you take the M&A exit off the table because it's no longer sort of feasible from a
[00:22:45] regulatory standpoint um not all those companies are going to IPO you know. what you what you're saying doesn't make logical sense because if those companies are [ __ ] anyway they should be going out of business and who cares about an aqua hire or some mini modest hire that gets you two times your money? There's a lot of acquisitions um where the acquirer is picking them up because they provide an important component or technology or
[00:23:09] product but that that that startup would not have been a great standalone public company. be worth more today? Would you be worth more money? Would your investors be worth more money if Yammer had SPAC'd? Yes or no David? Um I I I Answer is absolutely yes. Okay, so David your your argument makes no sense. I think you're playing to lose. It's not that it doesn't make sense. I think David David does bring up something that's important in the
[00:23:33] following way which is there's a lot of companies Jason that get to a certain amount of scale and then they basically start running out of oxygen whether it's because they've overbuilt or they've overhired or they've overspent or whatever. no natural audience for the product. Yeah, maybe but I think I think a lot of it is just sort of more overbuilding and just kind of distracted capital allocation. But then you know you need
[00:23:56] somebody to come in and this is the problem with Silicon Valley and I think what David speaks to is the following. If big tech M&A is off the table the single biggest thing that'll change is valuations by late stage private late stage privates. Because if you know that you can't get a 2x mark-to-market from the last post guess what'll happen to your post money? It'll go way down. Right? Because that was always the biggest assumption. You
[00:24:21] know all these guys these late stage money can come in and say well sure I'll put you know two and a half billion dollar post, a 3 billion dollar post because in their mind what they've been taught is that immediately sets the mark to get acquired as 2x. And in many ways Facebook started it because Facebook came to buy Instagram literally weeks after that growth stage round at 500 million and that's why they paid a
[00:24:43] billion one. They doubled the valuation. But wouldn't it hold on a second? Wouldn't it be healthier though for the entire ecosystem if we weren't building those late stage companies to be flipped to a major company, maybe merging them with medium size companies or slightly stronger and then taking them public to your point Chamath? My point is if you don't have a [ __ ] up cap table you can do all of those things. It's the [ __ ] up cap table
[00:25:06] that prevents that. Who needs this late stage capital coming in and doing these fakaka crazy rounds? Why not take the companies public earlier? Well, because look you don't always know what's going to happen. I mean this is the reason why Instagram sold, is the reason Yammer sold is you don't know exactly what's going to happen. You don't know what the outcome's going to be. And in a lot of those cases that you're saying what
[00:25:28] would become IPOs if they weren't acquired well a lot of them just you know aren't going to work. It's it's crazy to be taking those exits off the table when both the startup and you know the acquirer or the big tech company you know want to do the do the transaction. Um and and and and and one of the reasons why I think these you know there are a lot of these M&A type outcomes is because big companies have realized they're not very good at R&D,
[00:25:54] at sort of good at sort of new product development. And so what they've done is they've outsourced a lot of their R&D budgets to M&A. And so they let the startups run the experiments you know in any category in any new area you end up having a dozen of these startups get funded. You know we we make fun of it because they're all you know there's so many competitors in every little space but those startups are the laboratory where
[00:26:17] all these experiments are taking place and then you know the big company comes in at the end and sees which experiment did well and they acquire it. I think it's I mean I think the advantage of being a platform business is you can plug something in and immediately gain a lot of scale from it. So, I mean you know Instagram and YouTube are perfect examples. They were you know reasonably fast growing, had millions of users um but once they were
[00:26:43] plugged into the engine of the bigger platform they were worth 100 times as much over a few years because of all the usage and the infrastructure and the and the distribution etc. that was provided. Um but you know it looked insane at the time to pay a billion dollars and a billion six for those two businesses. Each of them are easily worth 100 billion plus today probably some multiple of that. Um and so I think it's
[00:27:09] Zach's point is right is like I'd rather as a look I worked in M&A at Google for a couple of years early in my career. I left Google in um in 2006 and a lot of the infrastructure that makes Google's you know revenue engine was acquired. You know we bought a company called Applied Semantics for 100 million bucks or 100 something million dollars at the time um which ultimately became AdSense. And Applied Semantics could scan a web page
[00:27:37] and basically determine what keywords that web page represented and then match ads from AdWords onto that that web page. That acquisition was 100 million dollars. I mean I don't track anymore how much but tens of billions of dollars of revenue are generated by that uh you know by that AdSense system today. You're bringing up something really important which is at the time Google was not a trillion dollar company.
[00:27:59] So, the point is that Google had access to enough capital market scale where you know nobody's going to get in the way of a 5 10 20 billion dollar company trying to buy a 100 million dollar business like that. I just don't think you're going to see you know any regulatory body take that seriously. Wait, so didn't we just paint the perfect picture Chamath? a trickle down. Wait, wait isn't that the perfect picture
[00:28:20] No, no in picture I think what it means is the 20 billion dollar company now probabilistically can actually win. So, for example like look look at this Intuit Credit Karma transaction, right? The question is you know could a smaller company have bought Credit Karma? Probably but not at the price that you know Intuit is willing to pay. Now, if Intuit gets big enough where there's a chilling effect and regulators say okay
[00:28:42] you know you're above a magic threshold and you know no bueno on the M&A anymore. Now Credit Karma has two choices which is maybe they sell for 4 billion to a very different company, right? Um or maybe they sell actually let's take a different example. PayPal. PayPal is now a top 20 business in America, right? By market cap. So, if PayPal isn't allowed for example to buy you know a bunch of sort of like you know payment rail payment companies.
[00:29:08] Um maybe what happens is like a you know a medium tier business is allowed to buy them. And now all of a sudden those medium tier businesses can compete with PayPal. That's what I think that's actually seems like the best solution that we've we've kind of stumbled upon here. Can't Slack then become or Dropbox or Uber or any Airbnb? Now they can become the acquirers of these companies and then they can compete. So, why don't we just
[00:29:29] say hey if you're over a trillion dollars or if you're over 500 billion you can buy 1% of your market cap. I'm just throwing a number out here. Jason let me jump in on this. That's not what Nadler was arguing for. You know it's not like Nadler was saying that if you're a big four tech company you can't do these deals, but everyone else can. The the the the the standard that that Nadler and the precedent that
[00:29:53] he was essentially setting in that hearing is, you know, 20/20 hindsight bias. You know, if if a company acquires um Yeah, but putting Nadler aside, I agree with you on that, but putting that aside, if we were going to come up with a rule, cuz we know the rules that as they currently exist are inadequate to do any type of regulation for these companies, cuz none of them have 95% market share. So, if in fact uh we we need a new solution. How about