[01:08:48] cheaper for me to sell Soylent I I think it's cheaper for some of these products to be So I can tell you my other company which we sell quinoa, it's cheaper for us to sell through retail stores than it is to sell on Amazon. We actually give up more margin selling on Amazon than we would otherwise. Because of the volume and because they've aggregated all the consumers. made the decision as an entrepreneur to sell your quinoa in all places even
[01:09:10] though you lose some margin, you make it back in aggregate. Well, this this goes to the market the market problem. Well, this goes to the market problem because now I as a I have less choice as a business owner because the only place I can find consumers is in this online marketplace called Amazon. I can no longer go sell at 50 local grocery stores because people don't go to the freaking local grocery stores anymore. And that's obviously a
[01:09:30] little bit of an extreme statement, but let's say I'm a pillow guy. I can't go sell at 50 pillow stores, cuz they've all been shut down, cuz all the consumers go to Amazon. you also sell at Target and Walmart and those other competitors who seem to be doing just, you know, pretty well, actually? They're doing well. Yeah, and and a lot of people have said that they're the kind of, you know, the exceptions, but there's a thousand
[01:09:48] versions of Sears and other stores that haven't done as well. Walmart and Target just happen to be extremely well-run businesses, but there's nothing fundamental about those businesses. kicked you off the platform and said, "We're not going to allow third-party sellers." Would you be happier, or would you be sadder? We would be sadder. Got it. Chamath, what are your thoughts? Amazon specific. Yeah, I think David said it really well
[01:10:09] up front, um which is that it's a it's kind of a when and not an if. So, it's, you know, Amazon today, I don't think is at risk, just because its end market is so big, but I think within 5 or 10 years, um it definitely will be looked at through the same lens as Facebook and Google and actually the just those two. Um Look, and I and I think David said it also really well, like the antitrust law that you would get, um you know, to be
[01:10:40] successful if applied to Facebook and Google, has nothing to do with users and content, and it has everything to do with the pricing of the ads to their customers. And if anybody actually were smart enough to figure out whether there was some way in which their auctions were working um that was effectively pricing inventory in a market, quote unquote, or in a system manipulated way, that's probably the best hook to to nab one of
[01:11:07] these folks in antitrust law. But other than that, it's going to be regulation. In terms of Amazon, I think they're going to get away unscathed. What's incredible, by the way, is, you know, 2 days later, they're like, "Hey, by the way, we just got an FCC license, and we're going to launch a $10 billion satellite constellation." And you know, if you if you looked at their RFP to to the uh to the FCC, the number of people
[01:11:28] that, you know, basically complained and cried, it was incredible. By the way, I think this is a huge important point that we haven't made, which is the benefit of scale for large innovative companies. There is no way any company would have out of the blue been able to afford a $10 billion distributed satellite program without having customers and all this other stuff lined up. Amazon can afford to take that risk,
[01:11:49] just like Alphabet has taken the risk with self-driving cars and did so before anyone else for many years. a net benefit for society, correct, David? a net benefit for society. So, by having scale, by having incredible profits, by and then by reinvesting it in R&D, creating jobs, innovating, it's the only way this kind of stuff is going to get done. You're not going to get it done by breaking up these companies and having a
[01:12:09] hundred companies that only have $10 million of profit each, and then each of them are, you know, no one at all can afford to do these grand important projects that that move markets forward. Ultimately, for humanity, Freeberg, you see these trillion-dollar plus companies as because they can make those big swings, a net benefit for humanity. As a technologist and as a kind of person that hopes for the future, I hope I hope
[01:12:33] that they that that these sorts of companies can continue to persist, and that they're led by people that want to take innovative risk with R&D dollars. And by the way, if they don't, they're going to [ __ ] fail eventually, right? It's these guys that are leading these companies and and putting these crazy bets on crazy new ideas that are allowing these businesses to remain competitive. Um and if they didn't, and, you know, some big
[01:12:57] company manager were to come in and start running these things and distributing cash and dividends back to shareholders, these wouldn't be happening, and and, you know, capitalism would take care of itself, and then the next big innovative risk-taker that can generate a profit and reinvest that profit in a smart way would end up winning in the marketplace. So Uh Sachs, you are a big investor in SpaceX at Craft Ventures, I understand.
[01:13:18] Uh and when you see Bezos copy every single thing Elon does from, you know, launching the rockets to then putting up the satellites, do you think he's just a copycat? Well, I you know, I I think he's the scariest monopolist out of the the whole bunch. Um you know, if you look at kind of Amazon versus, say, Google or Facebook or Apple, I mean, those other companies are sort of sticking to their original footprint, whereas Amazon keeps
[01:13:45] expanding into new areas. Um you know, it's that that whole mantra he has about your profit is my opportunity. And so, yeah, with each uh you know, with with each advancement that they make as they get into, you know, as they get to a new level of scale, they then turn around and uh and seek to take over kind of um the the you know, the areas that um that their vendors or business partners are operating. And so, you know, it started
[01:14:10] with first they did retail, you know, books, and then they expanded to other areas of retail, and then they take over um infrastructure, and now there's talk about them getting into to freight or trucking. Um and so, yeah, they keep expanding into these new areas, and it's it's really a statement of about our politics. I agree with Chamath that that Bezos went pretty much unscathed, and I think it has a lot to do with, you know,
[01:14:32] he did win the internet with that opening statement that he gave. It was a really um sort of great, you know, rags-to-riches, only in America type story. And um and so, I think I agree with Chamath he's going to get away pretty unscathed, but I I do think that they're they are the scariest monopolist of the bunch. What comment specifically on him copying every one of Elon Musk's ideas? Well, you know, uh copying is it's it is
[01:14:58] it is sort of a part of the game, you know, it is part of the game. And I've I've heard you attack Zuckerberg for doing the same thing. And, you know, look, I I get it. You know, we we we prize uh innovation, and we we we love innovators. Um but as soon as you say that you can't that other companies can't copy those innovations, you do stifle progress, and I look at it as more how consistently you do you do that as your playbook.
[01:15:24] When you look at uh Amazon Basics, this is the point I wanted to make when I and I made in my my earlier podcast, which was, you know, the Amazon Basics and the third-party seller system is the thing that uh they keyed in on on these hearings. They did not key in on uh the issue of that Freeberg brought up, which was, what is the margin they're taking from those third-party sellers, which I think would have been a much more deft
[01:15:51] uh approach to questioning them. But when it comes to third-party sellers, the fact is, they're allowing people to compete with them on their own platform, which drives prices so low. And when they make a better USB-C cable, that doesn't take a genius to make a better cable. So, do you think Amazon Basics should be allowed and is great for humanity, or do you think that that uh using of the data, cuz they have the
[01:16:20] sales data on it, is in some way abhorrent and a problem, given the way antitrust laws are currently framed for uh Sachs? Well, okay, so uh I think this is an area where So, the the area you're talking about is the way that these platforms treat the applications or small businesses that operate on their platforms. And I do think this is a a good area for for Congress to keep scrutinizing. Um You There's There's a saying in in in chess
[01:16:50] that that the threat is greater than the execution. So, sort of a chess strategy principle. I think that's true here, where um we I I I think the execution would be a disaster if we actually impose a lot of these rules, if we broke up these companies, if we stopped Amazon from innovating. I think that would be a disaster for uh for for those companies and for the economy, cuz I do think they they do a lot of good things. But in a weird way,
[01:17:14] I think we have to keep threatening to to do those things in order to get these companies not to do anti-competitive things. I mean, we heard Bezos say that he couldn't guarantee that they weren't using their uh their their sellers' data to to to to inappropriate ways. Basically, Amazon to to break Amazon's own policy. And so, I think you do have to apply this kind of scrutiny to these companies, uh because I I don't think we
[01:17:39] want to be retroactively uh you know, remediating a situation. I don't think we want to be breaking them up or doing something like that. But I do think we want them second-guessing these anti-competitive decisions before they actually happen. Um because otherwise, So, some some rules, but we certainly don't want to ankle them versus their competitors in China. As we wrap up here, cuz we're getting way past our hour. We're now at 80
[01:18:05] minutes, and we said a max of 90 here was what we all agreed on. Um I want to talk about the election. We are now at the 100-day mark. We all thought Biden was a shoe-in. Now, I have my own thesis. I want to float it and see what you guys think. Um you had Trump start wearing a mask last week, telling everybody they should wear masks. Now, there's universal discussion of wearing masks. We've got a little bit
[01:18:31] of vaccine hope, and I will get to Freeberg's position on is that vaccine false gold, or is it actual reality. But we know that masks are going to take three or four weeks uh if they're implemented properly for us to see the case load go down, which then the case load starts going down, and three or four weeks after that, the deaths would start going down. We may have even seen a little plateau in the number of cases. Cases is ramping up. a
[01:18:55] record 850 or 900,000 just yesterday, at the time of taping, I think, on the 29th of July. Now, my thesis is, Trump goes all-in on masks. The vaccine starts to show promise right as the debates start. He gets in there with Biden. We see case loads go down. We see deaths plummet. We get down under 250 deaths per day in America. By September 15th, the market rips and on Sep- end of September we have the first presidential debate. Biden dunks
[01:19:31] on a senile or maybe not crisp Biden. Trump sails in and we were just talking 2 months ago, anything could happen but Trump was definitely not going to be there. Let's go around the horn. Friedberg, vaccine false gold or really promising and what happens in the election? I think there's tons of promise with vaccine news in the next 2 months, uh 3 months. Uh I guess the point is you're going to hear more upside than you're going to
[01:20:02] hear downside news on vaccines, uh for sure. You know, whether or not we have a vaccine and by when and yada yada and how much chance we have a vaccine? We're going to have a vaccine. I think it's a function of how many doses, um at what point in time, um and you know, there there is this 30,000 trial happening with Moderna right now. There's a a Russian vaccine that just got approved yesterday in Russia that they're saying is ready to
[01:20:25] go and they're starting to distribute it. So, there is a vac- there are vaccines, right? This is a a known known. Uh so so that news will only continue to improve and build and there'll only be more and more indications of success with vaccines between now and and November. How that affects markets, I think I'm not sure that drives markets as much as some of the other stuff that's going on in markets with uh with the Fed and
[01:20:50] um and with policy and with packages, I think those are are frankly um important drivers right now. Uh and how much the markets ultimately affect the election, I don't know. Um So, uh yeah, it's still it's it's all still pretty uncertain. Um Who's going to win? I think it's pretty uncertain. I I'd I'd say Biden right now. entire net worth on one person. Go. Um Yeah, I I I I still think Trump is um I I I I kind of have been
[01:21:21] uh vacillating on this. I I think Trump is probably uh only going to improve from here on out. So, your entire net worth is on the line in 3, 2, place your bet. I'd go Trump. Wow. Wow. it's it's still it's still to me I mean, Trump is is got to be the huge underdog here. I mean, right now it looks like Biden's going to win. I mean, his basement strategy could backfire in the sense that if, you know, fundamental
[01:21:46] conditions improve with respect to COVID or the economy, the fact that he hasn't done anything, done anything, gone anywhere, um you know, it it it it could it could turn out to be a mistake. But right now, it it looks like it's working and um and you know, Trump seems to be completely knocked off his game. Um you know, just earlier in the week he floated this trial balloon about delaying the the election. That was
[01:22:09] completely shot down by um Republicans. And it seems like what did you think as a Republican? When you saw him tweet that, what did you think? What was your emotional visceral reaction as a Republican? You know, I'm not uh yeah, I I I don't I don't necessarily identify with with partisan politics. So, let me just I have to state that. What was your reaction as an American to him saying delay the election? Everybody Everybody shot down for
[01:22:33] reaction. Everybody shot it down for good reason. Your reaction, Sachs. Of course, we're not going to delay the election. We've, you know, um you know, we we we haven't delayed the we didn't delay the election to to fight He's so scared of being pinned as a Republican. He's It's not going to [ __ ] with your deal flow, Sachs. You can be a Republican. Okay, your entire net worth, we have to wrap. Your entire net worth, Sachs. You
[01:22:58] could right now. 3, 2, net worth. now it looks like Biden's going to win. Trump's Trump's been knocked off his game. And And let me me to say like I I think the the problem that Trump has right now is he's a salesman without a sales pitch. Um you know, you you go back to the State of the Union pre-COVID. He had it all worked out. He was going to run on the greatest economy ever, keep America great. That issue's been taken away from
[01:23:20] him and it seems like he's still trying to regain his footing. He's trying to figure out what to run on. And the fact that he can't do these rallies, which were really, you know, the fact that he was able to go in 2016 to these swing states, he would be, you know, flying around on his plane and and and you three he did three rallies a day in these swing states with tens of thousands of people. it. He wanted to win.
[01:23:41] It was it it was it was that and it gave him a way to go over the heads of the media and speak directly to the people and then those people talked to other people. There's a lot of word of mouth. Um and so he the inability for him to hold those rallies, I think it's just been um devastating for the type of campaigning that he likes to do. And so, in a weird way we have less than 100 days to the election, but it feels like the campaign
[01:24:03] hasn't really started yet because Trump can't do rallies and Biden hasn't left his basement. Okay, Chamath. Entire net worth on the line. All SPACs. SPAC B, SPAC C, SPAC D, whatever you got SPAC'd up. All your SPACs on the line. Everything. The Warriors position. 3, 2, net worth. We don't need to guess, but I'll tell you why. Um you know, uh we had a 33% drop in GDP. We have double digit unemployment. And I think Trump's
[01:24:38] real path to winning the White House, which we talked about before, was getting an enormous stimulus bill passed and he didn't force the Republican Senate to the table to make sure that these unemployment benefits didn't roll off. Now, there's a very practical problem with these unemployment benefits, which is that it is not administered at the federal level. It's administered by literally 50 state agencies that run relatively decrepit
[01:25:05] software. Now, just so you guys know, why do we pick $600? It was an estimated numerical average because what the Republicans really wanted to do was just top it up. You know, whatever you used to get to get to 100 and it was technically not feasible to implement across 50 different Right. So, somebody in Boise, Idaho is different than somebody in New York. So, they they were like, "Ah, 600 bucks." So, my point is uh it's going to