[00:00:00] All right, everybody, welcome back. It's another episode of All-in podcast, the podcast that is racing up the charts despite the fact that we recorded every three or four weeks. There's no marketing, there's no ads in this podcast. It's just four friends who play poker together who've decided to talk about the most important issues in the world. Welcome back to the podcast, David Friedberg, the queen of quinoa
[00:00:23] himself, obviously climate.com Eatsa and an undisclosed beverage startup that I'm not supposed to talk about. I'm sorry about that. I know a lot of people were tweeting about this beverage startup. You're still not ready to talk about the beverage startup. Thank you, J Cal. Yeah. Welcome back to the show. always appreciate your promotions. But when when will the beverage startup do you guys want to talk about Do you
[00:00:46] guys want to talk about Jason's home address? Cuz I have that, I think. Please no. I want to ask, is is that a picture in the background? I love space, by the way, as you know, but is that a picture of Uranus or what is that picture? I think that's Saturn. It's Saturn. It's Saturn. It's not your Saturn. It's no, it's Saturn. Uh Friedberg, obviously taking the first Virgin Galactic flight. Chamath Palihapitiya, of course, with us
[00:01:13] here, the prince of SPACs calling in from an undisclosed location that is not burning down like the United States. How you doing on your vacay? Uh doing really well. Thanks. Thank god I'm giving you the three-button salute, as I've told you. Yeah, thank god the microphone is perfectly positioned so we do not have to look at your chest hair. All six of your chest hairs. Oh my god. It's like a thousand-dollar suit that's missing all of its buttons
[00:01:39] or or shirt, rather. I mean, they couldn't afford to put buttons all the way up on your like probably two-thousand-dollar shirt. Austerity measures. When I get back to the United States, as Jason said, my haberdasher will meet me at plane side and sew the three buttons on. Yeah, when he when he leaves for Europe, they remove the three buttons. He comes back, the haberdasher puts them back on each shirt. He does that for the entire
[00:02:00] wardrobe. And, of course, chiming in is Rain Man himself, David Sacks, professional blogger and the the fund manager of Craft Ventures of course, before that working at PayPal with Peter Thiel, Elon Musk and a bunch of other famous people, two of which have gone on to have demonstrably more success than Sacks, but Sacks having, of course, more than success, demonstrable success than the other 72 rocket scientists from PayPal.
[00:02:31] In between, he did a little company called Yammer which Microsoft bought for a billion dollars. Speaking of big companies and big tech we had a big tech hearing this week and Jeff Bezos Sundar and Zuck himself as well as Tim Cook, two founders and two hired guns, people who were hired for their positions, defending themselves from what I thought was some pretty good questioning. My My expectations were very low that anybody
[00:03:02] on that panel would know what they were talking about. For me, I thought Jeff Bezos did the best job. He had a great opening statement and he was the most candid and I think least likely to get broken up. Going around the horn here, Chamath, who did the best job in the hearings? I don't know if you saw all of them or just clips, but who do you think shined? I I only saw, to be honest with you, your recap, which I thought was frankly
[00:03:28] really, really good. And we should we should probably link to that in the show notes so people can listen to it. I saw a couple of answers. Um The the thing that jumped off the page to me was I I read a little bit of Bezos's statement. I thought it was pretty fire. I thought he did the best job kind of positioning himself, but the reality is, you know, it's kind of what I said a few days earlier on CNBC, but I
[00:03:52] just thought going in, this whole thing was set up to be kind of performative theater and it basically was that, you know, the the just like the level of questions are just so poor, the level of understanding is so bad, and then, you know, people just use it as a way to grandstand. And everybody did. So, you know, I wasn't completely blown away by any of it, to be quite honest. What do you think, Friedberg? Who had
[00:04:15] the best showing in those hearings? I think Zuck was the most kind of eloquent in the on-point responses. He was uh super super well prepped for this thing. I think Bezos and and others were obviously uh you know, they had they had great kind of prep work done for their statement but in terms of like warding off the attacks, I think Zuck did did a great job. You know, it was weird. It didn't feel like like Tim Cook should have been
[00:04:47] there. It was like kind of a random thing that he was there because everyone had an axe to grind and the axe that everyone had to grind was a little bit different. It wasn't like this was a a true objective discussion about, you know, antitrust. And so the the axes people had to grind were kind of pointed at Google and Facebook and Amazon in different ways. Tim Cook was kind of, you know, hey, yeah, this is cool. You guys go ahead
[00:05:13] and give your responses. I'm going to go back to work. think that's because Apple does not have a monopoly position on a on a numbers basis in anyone era and or and and or because their products are so loved and universally, you know, used Well, I I think it's actually a function of what these companies do. So, if you look at the Jim Jordan rant, I don't know if you guys watched this, but Jim Jordan did this big rant at the opening.
[00:05:40] And he went on and on. And the first thing he said, he's like, "Big tech is out to get conservatives." And then he went on and gave all these examples about how Twitter has been pulling down Donald Trump's tweets and flagging them and and Facebook's been been, you know, canceling certain people on the platform. And his whole axe to grind was really about censorship on social media platforms which has [ __ ] nothing to
[00:05:59] do with antitrust and has nothing to do with Apple's business. And so, yeah, I guess my point is like And then other people have issues with with the with Google's dominance in ads and Amazon's impact on local business. And so there there wasn't much of an axe to grind, frankly, with Apple. At the end of the day, as I said, I just don't think that it was a function of, you know, a true kind of objective antitrust approach and
[00:06:21] it was just more about like, "Hey, we've all got different things we want to address and we finally got these guys here. Let's beat them up." and you know. Sacks, what do you think? Were you you with Friedberg that it was performance art or do you think that or performative, rather? Do you or do you think that there are actually substantive issues that came up during the hearings that we should discuss here? Well, you know, it was both.
[00:06:41] Um you know, certainly there was a tremendous amount of grandstanding and political theater and the politicians on both sides wanted to take shots at at the companies for various reasons. I mean, I think they have a slightly different hierarchy of hate. I think the the left sort of hates Facebook the most because they blame it for Trump's election, which I think is kind of a ridiculous scapegoating, which we should talk more about. But
[00:07:11] and then I think the right is is most suspicious towards Google. Um But I think there are, you know, legitimate issues here as that were brought up and I I think the congressional hearing did score some hit points. And I think your your previous pod did a good job showing some of those. The these hearings were teed up apparently over the past year by a series of subpoenas of records that the the committee, this is the
[00:07:38] This is the House subcommittee on antitrust had teed up. And so there were some moments where I thought that um you know, the the representatives scored some hits on, you know, Facebook and Google. Um What do you think the big Who took the biggest hit in all of this? Who Who Who do you think has the most Putting aside all this performance, obviously, and the politicization of everything in our country and Jim
[00:08:05] Jordan, who to me is like the He's like the dad at the baseball game who like the little league game who runs on the court and pushes the umpire and gets banned for the season. Like he just yells over everybody for no reason. Right. But what is the actual What was the punch that landed that is the most valid as we go around the horn one more time here now that we got our initial thoughts about it. What punch landed the
[00:08:28] squarest in one of these companies' faces? Well, I I I Let me Let me set this up. I I think there were three big areas of concern where just about all the companies, with maybe the exception of Amazon, took hits. Although even, you know, Bezos took hits. I think one is with respect to anti-competitive actions that these platforms are taking, particularly with respect to the applications for small businesses that
[00:08:53] operate and are dependent on those platforms. I think all of the companies were interrogated about that. You know, Bezos took a hit when he had to admit there were concede that the company may not have always followed its policy with respect to using its you know, third-party sellers' data to to figure out how to compete with them. You know, Google was interrogated about snippets. There was news today actually just out
[00:09:17] of Australia that the government's going to order Google to pay small businesses for the use of its its content for snippets, which you know, so so the the regulations are kind of heating up on this. But the the sort of the first area was sort of anti-competitive. And I think Facebook took some some hits with respect to the Instagram um which you know, Congressman Nadler really went after him. And then I think um uh Jayapal as
[00:09:45] as well. And that that's a tremendously threatening issue for Facebook because if it is forced to divest Instagram, it would just be crippling for for the company. We'll talk more about that. Yeah, let's take let's But but just to just to Jason, to set the table, two other issues that I think came up, I'll just very briefly. The number two is sort of cosying up to China. I think Google is the one that's most vulnerable here. And
[00:10:09] then the third issue is sort of this issue of censorship and bias uh with respect to content and and politics in the election. do with which has nothing to do with antitrust, the censorship issue. So, let's table that one that one. you're hitting the nail on the head. This is not about antitrust going in. I think people were, you know, kind of confused. Even Jim Jordan just I don't think he has any clue what he's talking
[00:10:30] about. He doesn't know the difference between regulation and antitrust. He doesn't know the difference between the Sherman Act and like, you know, section 230. I think they're all kind of making it up as they go along. So, in many ways I think, personally, that the companies that were the most at risk going in were the same companies at risk coming out. And so, you know, if you had to stack rank risk, I think Facebook is number
[00:10:54] one at the top of the list. Then I think it's Google. Then I think it's Apple. And then I think far, far, far down is Amazon. In many ways Amazon is the most inoculated simply because the end market that they operate in is so massive. Um and the the market that Facebook operates in is so new yet so constrained with very few competitors. So, in many ways I think that's how the risk cuts. I really think that the
[00:11:23] antitrust legislative framework that existed isn't enough to touch any of these guys. Instead, I think what really happens is more regulatory. Um and if you really think about what these guys are very concerned about, it's more that Facebook, largely, and then Google to a smaller degree, essentially can be kingmakers with respect to popular opinion and sentiment. And I think that they want to have regulations. And I
[00:11:46] think that there's a good historical precedent for a bunch of industries um that have had to come under regulation when they effectively get to 100% distribution. You know, whether it's meat or airplanes or radio or television, you know, agriculture writ large um uh automobiles and transportation, whenever a market basically serves 100% of the total addressable universe, government step in and they don't necessarily legislate and trust bust,
[00:12:16] they fundamentally regulate and tax. And I think in many ways that's just as bad and frankly in some ways it's worse because if you do that to a tech company, you're basically crippling the one thing that they're supposed to be very good at, which is to innovate. And that's the only thing that they can use to basically keep their stock price high, which is then the only thing that they can use to get people to continue
[00:12:36] to work for them. So, that's the sort of circular loop that breaks if you regulate them. And I think that the risk coming in was the same as coming out. So, Facebook let's let's take them let's take them one at a time. Facebook I thought had the worst performance because it was pretty clear that Nadler was setting them up not only to not be able to buy a company in the future, but in that clip he was sort of teeing them
[00:12:57] up that maybe the Instagram uh acquisition should be unwound and they should be forced to spin that off uh because they were saying over and over and over again that Zuckerberg put in emails uh with his management team that they were going to buy these companies or kill them or copy their feature sets. And even though that may not be explicitly illegal, the fact that they've hit as uh Chamath is talking about such incredible market share with
[00:13:26] billions of users and because of the track record of Zuckerberg, you know, which may not be at all related to this, but it sets the table. No, but Jason Jason, in fairness to Mark, that decision wasn't made when Facebook had market dominance. Um that decision was made when Facebook was still fundamentally at risk and there was a large period of time where a lot of other people, had they been left to their own devices or
[00:13:49] properly capitalized, could have actually become a relatively you know, important competitor to Facebook. Instagram could have been at that point, but then Snapchat was the opposite. Snapchat they were at scale and then they were going to buy it and threaten them either you sell to us or we're going to copy the features. I think I think I think what a more logical and defensible reaction it it like I I just think it's not defensible
[00:14:12] to say, "Oh, you know what, Facebook, I didn't like the acquisition you did 10 years ago basically because it worked. And so, I'm going to punish you 10 years later." That's crazy. That's stupid. In the rearview mirror, no no good. Yeah. A more reasonable place to be is to say, "Okay, this thing, meaning communications writ large, has become a critical piece of societal infrastructure and we are trying to figure out now what the rules should be.
[00:14:35] And rules shouldn't be brittle. Rules should be evolutionary. They should map, you know, to the moral decisions and ideas and frameworks of the time. And so, you know, uh we have to figure out, for example, number one, interoperability. So, how can you message across all these multiple networks? You know, another simple example, uh you know, we legislated the ability for emergency services to be able to send a message on your mobile
[00:15:00] phone line and your landline. You should probably be able to have a backdoor into all the messaging networks simply for that reason. So, the point is that, you know, there are all kinds of things you can do today to make this infrastructure layer of society operate in a more predictable way on behalf of What was your best You have a Have you thought about a regulation, and let's stick to Facebook and then we'll go to
[00:15:23] Amazon. Chamath, have you thought about a regulation that would make sense to Facebook, whether it's divesting an asset or maybe a certain percentage of usage or allowing Facebook Messenger to work with iMessage to work with, you know, Twitter DMs? I'll answer it in a different way. So, look, I mean, for 20 years I've run these kind of businesses. Like from from Winamp to AIM and ICQ to then, you know, at Facebook. And so, um you know, I
[00:15:50] remember in at AIM and ICQ, we, you know, did all this hand ringing and all these meetings between us and Microsoft and Yahoo to make our messaging networks interoperate. And, you know, eventually we were basically just cut off at the knees because other people just moved around us and eventually it all just morphed anyways away from uh these sort of brittle messaging networks. My my kind of view is that I don't I I think what's best for Facebook
[00:16:18] is a status quo. And so, you know, uh if if if if they can basically And by the way, I think the strategy is and and Mark wrote this in his manifesto, but a couple of years ago, you know, this is sort of what led to Chris Cox resigning if I'm playing, you know, sort of like conspiracy theorist. If you read Zuck's manifesto, what he was basically saying is, "Listen, we're going to take all these product and we're going to take all that