[00:41:53] the question, but it's an insane idea, Chamath. It's it's a it's a little bit like uh Twitter fact-checking uh the politicians they don't like. The digital Politburo. It's it's a it's a form of like soft censorship. Um and, you know, I I I actually think that, you know, Zuckerberg gets attacked the most, but I think his position on speech actually makes makes the most sense. I mean, it seems like what he said is we want to be a neutral free
[00:42:20] speech platform. And, you know, whereas I think, you know, Twitter and um Snapchat, for that matter, are much more likely to engage in either uh you know, censorship or or fact-checking. Which is paradoxical cuz Twitter's initial position, David, was it was the free speech platform. And I totally agree with you. I think Sachs's position is the most defensible, but it also is the most untenable because it's the most it's the it's the
[00:42:45] it's the least uh technologically and just socially palatable, but it is the most defensible and philosophically, in my opinion, the only position you can have. But it's not it's not going to be what wins. Right. Well, it's it's it's the reason why Zuckerberg is hated is because if you're going to defend defend the principle of free speech, you always end up defending speech that society hates. You know, like the ACLU and
[00:43:10] Exactly. Exactly. And and and so, you know, Zuckerberg I think has done the best job sticking to his guns. I mean, the reason why Twitter is sort of uh you know, loved on the left is is precisely because they gave in to the mob, and they've, you know, they've started uh taking down accounts that the mob doesn't like or or or or or, you know, fact-checking them. Right. Whereas I think, you know, Zuck and that and Zuckerberg's refusal to do that, and
[00:43:36] by the way, I don't think he's been like perfect in this regard, but he's been much better about standing up for the principle of free speech. That's what's made him, you know, anathema to the left. I think that and the fact that Facebook still gets blamed for Freeberger, I have two I have I have two specific follow-ups to what David just said for you, which is one, how much of this has to do with anonymity being
[00:43:57] allowed on Twitter versus not being allowed on Facebook? And second, how much of it has to do with the fact that we have algorithms that trend topics. If we didn't have those algorithms trending them, perhaps this wouldn't be an issue because if you wrote something that was inflammatory, it wouldn't and false, let's say, in that situation, both characteristics, it wouldn't go to the top of the list, which is what
[00:44:18] everybody's kind of upset about is that something that's false goes to the top of your feed. Comment on those two issues. Well, I think your second your second point's an important one, which is like social media helps to enhance the stimulation of the amygdala in the human brain. Uh you know, you see something that makes you angry or something that makes you elated, you are more likely to engage with it. If you see something
[00:44:41] that is kind of a rational discussion about something that doesn't incite emotion in you, you're less likely to engage in it. And so, whatever the engagement model is, it ends up, you know, creating a lot more virality and chatter and and and kind of gets brought to the surface, and there's a lot that's been written and said about this that I don't think we're kind of uniquely in a position to to say anything more on. Um
[00:45:00] and that's obviously what a lot of people are kind of concerned about is the inflammatory and polarizing nature of the content that is getting highlighted on these platforms and is getting greater distribution on these platforms. And then I think your prior point, I'm not sure it's about anonymity as much as it is um uh about any form of censorship that ultimately can be viewed as biased. So, Jim Jordan's points were actually, you
[00:45:24] know, as much as the guy rants and goes on and sounds like a guy running on the soccer field to punch the coach. Um it's really interesting to hear the point of view that as a conservative, I believe that a lot of what Donald Trump is saying or what some conservative voices are saying is reasonable, and that voice should be heard. And to hear over and over about Twitter pulling these things down, and then seeing a
[00:45:45] whole bunch of stuff like anarchists taking over Seattle and taking over Portland, and they don't get their stuff taken down, you know, them claiming that they can hold down the streets of Portland and Seattle because that's, you know, the way that it should be, doesn't, you know, incite any sort of censorship, but Donald Trump saying he's going to end it incite censorship. Um and so, I think it's not as much about
[00:46:06] anonymity as much as it is about um you know, having um censorship tied to a voice and censorship tied to a labeled or tagged point of view or labeled or tagged individual or voice um on the platform. So, Without anonymity, I think the problem goes away for Twitter. I think Twitter is working on a project, and I've been saying this for a decade, that they should let everybody pay $50 a year, $5 a month, or 30 bucks a year,
[00:46:30] $10 a month, whatever it is, to go through a verification process to make sure it's their name on the account, which by the way, Nextdoor is doing at scale. Not only do they know it's you, they know it's your you're the person who lives at that address cuz you got a postcard there. I think and in Korea uh South Korea, you're required to put your social security number in to open a social um account. That would solve the entire
[00:46:51] problem. Now, that may seem and then it would drive other users who want anonymity to anonymous platforms, and that's where Twitter it's trying to have its cake and eating it, too, and they're falling on their face. They have one level, which is troll accounts that can do whatever the hell they want, playing on the same playing field with people who uh can and and this is just a disaster for them. The Jim Jordan may be
[00:47:10] an idiot um and and just a loudmouth, but I think I agree with you, if the situation was reversed and we were talking about Obama being censored for some reason and the right and right-wing people or left-wing people um being silenced or deprecated on the platform, you know, soft banned, uh people would be up in arms, but it that was a different form. He shouldn't be doing that in a censorship, and they should have a censorship committee
[00:47:35] talking about that. What do you think, Chamath, about these two issues? Anonymity on these platforms and the velocity in which things that outrage people, because you yourself, Chamath, went from Hold on, but I want to chew this up for you, Chamath. You yourself went from being uh a perennial guest on a lot of these programs, and then now, since you've been a little bit more vocal about how you feel about social
[00:47:55] issues, when you said break everything up, who cares on CNBC, and then when you said um who cares, let them fail, they don't get their summer happens house, you gained 150,000 followers, and now you've learned that if you're more I don't want to say the word outrageous, but if you're more vocal about social issues, you're going to gain a lot of attention. Um do you think you should have been labeled as somebody who is hysterical by
[00:48:20] your 500,000 people or being outrageous? Um both and all platforms are littered with fake accounts. Um the interesting factoid from yesterday was I think Facebook says they take down 6.3 billion fake accounts or something. Some crazy crazy crazy number. So, they are paying playing whack-a-mole. Twitter just basically says we don't have the team and the infrastructure, so we'll just let the 6 billion accounts be.
[00:48:48] That's the only difference between Facebook and Twitter. It's a it's a it's an acknowledgement of the problem and the transparency on the reporting. So, um you know, look, my my point of view on this is that I think that irrespective of what I believe about free speech, I think it's becoming harder and harder for me, just as a layman, reading, to figure out what's true and not true. Um I think that the line is getting very
[00:49:16] gray, and I think that sources that used to have complete um integrity, that were, you know, just um just beyond reproach in terms of their integrity, um it's not clear anymore because the business model of the internet is driven towards clicks. So, I think what's actually happening is that we are dismantling um information and news and journalism. Um the first place where I think that goes is places like Substack, which is going
[00:49:49] to rebuild it bottoms up where people will vote with their subscription dollars what to believe and what not to believe. And then on top of that, people will overlay aggregation tools so that you can actually have multi-subscriptions and create sort of like next-generation magazines and content subscriptions or whatever. I think that's where the That's where the world is going in terms of information and content.
[00:50:13] Jason, my honest belief is that I don't think I've ever said anything that particularly crazy. I just think that I'm reasonably intelligent and I'm precise in what I say and it cuts through a lot of the [ __ ] because most people have nothing to say. So, um you know, when I make a [ __ ] investment, I write a one-pager and I post it and I'm willing to be held accountable. You know, when I don't understand about climate change, I just
[00:50:34] post about it even though I want to invest $2 billion of my own money in it. And so, I think uh being authentic and just being straightforward is is sort of like what is valuable at some level on the internet. I think that governments are going to regulate these companies. Let's just be clear. Whatever I think about censorship, it just doesn't matter what I think because governments are of a belief that these platforms craft and shape
[00:51:03] public opinion and sentiment, which drive the aggregation and coalescing of power, which fundamentally disrupts the business model of the politician. Uh let's go swing over to Sachs here. Uh Sachs, any comments on that censorship issue or uh the uh once very respected sources of news maybe being less respected now. I think The New York Times came to mind when uh Chamath was sort of outlining that phenomenon. And then we'll move on to
[00:51:34] Amazon. Yeah, I mean I I think there are things that these platforms can do to elevate the uh you know, the the discourse, you know, the the quality of the information people are getting. I think that um eliminating the bot accounts, I think it's a huge problem on Twitter that that it's you know, that that they're out there. Um they're not really doing much about it. Um I think that's something they could improve and fix.
[00:51:57] Um you know, requiring people to to be who they purport to be, you know, I think in the this is tied to the bot issue of you know, not allowing um these sort of um sock puppet accounts. Um so, the the but but the thing about those those steps that they could take is they're speech neutral, right? The rules would apply to everybody. Um you know, to Freeberg's point. And so, I think they should look at doing more of those
[00:52:20] things, but you know, what what I'm concerned about is that um you know, so so much of the um the debate, so much of the pressure that's being brought on Facebook is to actually moderate and control the type of speech that occurs on its platform. And um and I think the reason why Zuckerberg is is attacked more than say, you know, Jack Dorsey is because he's been more resistant to to doing that. I I think I think it's actually because you have a
[00:52:50] bunch of what seems like real names. But again, I think that there's a fake account issue on Facebook that's just as bad as Twitter. It's just the difference is, you know, the the fake accounts on Facebook have proper first and last names, whereas Twitter you have all kinds of alphanumeric garbage as a as an account name. So, here's a different proposal. Why you know, maybe what maybe what we need is the decision that we
[00:53:12] allow complete unfettered free speech and there's a layer of both Facebook and Twitter and YouTube where that's completely allowed, but the precursor to have that access is you need to put in your social security number or something that's uniquely identifiable by your government. So that if you say something and there's a law against you saying something, already a pre-established law, there's recourse. Where can you go
[00:53:33] and be anonymous, Chamath, because you know On a webpage. You can create any webpage you want. No, but no, but I was going to say is then I think what it creates is um a decision by a user to coalesce on completely different platforms if what you want is complete anonymity for a very different reason. And I think that that's very reasonable, too. My point is the the solution to this, David, is diversity. Not to have one thing and two
[00:53:57] companies try to create some Swiss Army knife Frankenstein product that solves this. It's just not possible. And I think we're both saying the same thing, which is like you have completely different behaviors trying to go in through the same channel. It's not possible. I actually I I like the idea of these platforms doing more to eliminate bot accounts and and uh anonymity um because the those are neutral rules of the game and they do
[00:54:22] improve the quality of the debate that occurs on those platforms. Um I think those would be good things. I think it's just hard to do. I think that those companies may even want to do that. It seems like Facebook certainly does. It's just a hard thing to execute. not that hard. I mean, if you just said, "Hey, listen, this account In order to have a verified account, you have to have a phone number and email." So,
[00:54:42] that's two steps that a spammer trying to create a lot of accounts would not be able to do cuz you'd have to get burner phone number after burner phone number, which is a cost. It's possible, but it's a cost. And if you want to be verified, we need your phone number and we need your email address and we need you to you put in your credit card and get charged a dollar on your credit card just that we had a credit card.
[00:55:03] Overnight Reddit would become the new Twitter. Overnight Reddit would become 4chan would become the new Facebook. I mean, overnight like like you know, there's to have an account, Freeberg, but to have the blue check mark. So, you would still be able to and then over time people could say, "I don't want to see replies unless they've been verified." And it could be just a toggle you pick. By the way, Facebook, Google, and
[00:55:22] Twitter already have this mechanism because that's what they do to graduate advertisers up the spending curve. You know, you can start as an anonymous advertiser just spending, you know, onesy-twosy dollars um you know, just off of a webpage basically. Just you go through and you do self-serve ads and the more you spend or the more targeting capability you want, you graduate, you self-identify, you give more information, you get more
[00:55:43] capability back, you get more trust in the system. So, it does exist for the customers of these big tech companies. And this is the other big thing. What it shows you is that it's actually solved the problem for the customers. It just doesn't solve it for the you know, feudalist feedstock, which are the users. Because they won't pay. And so, if you said, "Hey, listen, there's an honor system to verify They don't know. Twitter's coming out
[00:56:06] with a paid version. So, they're obviously on the on the halfway there. They're going to come up with a paid version of Twitter. Jack said it on his uh quarterly uh earnings call. to sell I'm going to sell my Twitter stock. Well, I mean, it's not it's not one or the other, Freeberg, though. You you don't have to pick one or the other. You could still be anonymous, but you have the opportunity cuz right now they're
[00:56:24] not accepting new verified users. And unless you're a muckety-muck, you don't get to even go down that route. So, shouldn't everybody have the ability to go down that route? I would like I mean, I personally would like Twitter more if it verified identity. I mean, I don't I don't think there should be a speech tax. I don't know why they have to charge a dollar, but um but but taking taking additional means we have your credit card. It's
[00:56:46] just another hurdle. That's why I put it at a dollar. yeah, yeah. You you you can do it like a $1 auth without actually charging anyone's card. Yes, you could do that. For example, like if you if you actually force people to verify by putting in their social security number, like there's a couple guys I follow. I'll just name them. Scott Adams, who wrote the Dilbert comics. Um there's a guy Mike Block who I'm really not sure I understand his
[00:57:08] politics, but I follow him cuz I cuz you know, he he posts all kinds of But my point is, you know, it's it's not just people on the left, but I think it would be people on the left, people in the center, people on the right who would basically pay the quote-unquote tax because they're already real people. And they would just they would then have more guarantees and insurances that Twitter won't be arbitrary. And I think