[00:27:59] So, the point is that Google had access to enough capital market scale where you know nobody's going to get in the way of a 5 10 20 billion dollar company trying to buy a 100 million dollar business like that. I just don't think you're going to see you know any regulatory body take that seriously. Wait, so didn't we just paint the perfect picture Chamath? a trickle down. Wait, wait isn't that the perfect picture
[00:28:20] No, no in picture I think what it means is the 20 billion dollar company now probabilistically can actually win. So, for example like look look at this Intuit Credit Karma transaction, right? The question is you know could a smaller company have bought Credit Karma? Probably but not at the price that you know Intuit is willing to pay. Now, if Intuit gets big enough where there's a chilling effect and regulators say okay
[00:28:42] you know you're above a magic threshold and you know no bueno on the M&A anymore. Now Credit Karma has two choices which is maybe they sell for 4 billion to a very different company, right? Um or maybe they sell actually let's take a different example. PayPal. PayPal is now a top 20 business in America, right? By market cap. So, if PayPal isn't allowed for example to buy you know a bunch of sort of like you know payment rail payment companies.
[00:29:08] Um maybe what happens is like a you know a medium tier business is allowed to buy them. And now all of a sudden those medium tier businesses can compete with PayPal. That's what I think that's actually seems like the best solution that we've we've kind of stumbled upon here. Can't Slack then become or Dropbox or Uber or any Airbnb? Now they can become the acquirers of these companies and then they can compete. So, why don't we just
[00:29:29] say hey if you're over a trillion dollars or if you're over 500 billion you can buy 1% of your market cap. I'm just throwing a number out here. Jason let me jump in on this. That's not what Nadler was arguing for. You know it's not like Nadler was saying that if you're a big four tech company you can't do these deals, but everyone else can. The the the the the standard that that Nadler and the precedent that
[00:29:53] he was essentially setting in that hearing is, you know, 20/20 hindsight bias. You know, if if a company acquires um Yeah, but putting Nadler aside, I agree with you on that, but putting that aside, if we were going to come up with a rule, cuz we know the rules that as they currently exist are inadequate to do any type of regulation for these companies, cuz none of them have 95% market share. So, if in fact uh we we need a new solution. How about
[00:30:21] this for a solution? I'm just putting it out here. You can acquire something that is under 5% of your market cap. So, if your market cap over the last year is a billion, you can buy something 50 billion or less. If you're uh under 500 If you're under 250 billion, you can buy whatever the hell you want. But, Chamath, let me let let me let me ask this question. You know, the the points we made earlier about YouTube and
[00:30:43] Instagram, they were successful because of the scale of the user base of the platforms that acquired them and the work that had already been done, and so they could plug in been totally successful without have been successful, but would they have been worth $300 billion like they are today? It's unclear. more. But, Instagram was 13 people, YouTube was a couple dozen people. It doesn't matter. The story is a small
[00:31:03] group were brought in with with an interesting platform that was kind of working at the time, and then they became these $300 billion platforms. So, that's one scenario. And a lot of money could be used and Google and and Facebook used a lot of money to be the best acquirer and to be able to acquire those businesses, and that's the argument for this Hey, they're at such a scale right now, no one else can compete
[00:31:23] because only they can pay this this fee, as Chamath points out with Intuit and Credit Karma. Only Intuit can buy Credit Karma at that price. Now, the alternative way to think about this is what if there's vertical expansion? So, instead of leveraging their existing platform and their existing dominance, what if Google in this case is trying to get into the cloud business, right? And they're competing viciously with Amazon
[00:31:43] and Microsoft and others in this enterprise cloud business marketplace that is continuously evolving, changing every year there's a different kind of lead and a and a different company that's suddenly growing faster than the others. And Google spent $2.6 billion to buy Looker. Buying Looker for $2.6 billion does not advantage Google's advertisers, it does not advantage I mean, to some degree it might, it does
[00:32:03] not advantage Google's users, and it is not about platform dominance in their traditional ad business, it's about vertical expansion into a new market. Okay, so here's how I'll rewrite the law, David. If you have over 70% market share in your vertical, you cannot make acqui- additional acquisitions in that vertical. If you have they're buying into a new vertical, right? That's my point. so then the caveat is, if you're buying
[00:32:24] into a new vertical, you don't have to hit that cap. already have that. We already have I mean, that that's that's basically the the way the the rules work today is that you look at market share. I mean, Coke cannot buy Pepsi, Facebook cannot buy Twitter today. Um but, what we're talking about is at a much earlier stage, are you going to interfere with the M&A, or are you going to retroactively go back and unwind these
[00:32:47] transactions? makes no sense. Yeah. I think the point is this is all water under the bridge, and but the incremental M&A for these big guys is uh very unlikely. Now, David does bring up a good point, unless it's in basically a, you know, do nothing, not at that important, you know, in in the positioning uh category relative to the core business. And so, this is why, you know, it's again, go back to like why did
[00:33:14] Looker close faster than Fitbit? It's half the price. Looker's twice the price, right? Fitbit is half the price. Yeah, new mark- new market completely. Yeah. Yeah, and so so there is a fear that there is going to be a compounding advantage that regulators have a responsibility to stop. So, I think it goes back to um once you get to a certain level of scale, the thing that we're missing with online businesses is
[00:33:43] this kind of like, you know, there's like a there's like a great original sin here that we're not admitting, which is that the internet is now a pervasive and critical part of human infrastructure. As such, there needs to be people that regulate and manage the internet the same way the FAA manages and regulates planes and wind turbines. Like, think about the FAA, let's just take aviation. It is impossible for you to go and just
[00:34:11] go into your garage, build some random thing to carry people from point A to point B in the absence of some certification. Okay? Take agriculture. It is impossible for you to basically go and like build up a farm and build up, you know, uh livestock or whatever, and all of a sudden just supply it into [ __ ] Sobeys and Safeway without any sort of like checks and balances. Similarly, and the reason is because
[00:34:38] it's simple human infrastructure that everybody relies on. And and I just think that we have to admit that now the internet company also those are life and death. This can be, too. I mean, like what about the guy that read the post about like the pedophiles in the pizza joint, came up with an AK-47 Yeah, I mean, it's quite an edge case compared to flying on a plane. This stuff is life and death at some level, but even more than life and
[00:35:01] death, it's the anointing of power that then determines life and death. That and that's I think the key is that it's power. Yeah. Chamath, do you think that there should be an internet regulatory body that decides how businesses operate and how content is censored and and managed on the internet? Is that what you're kind of suggesting? Yeah, so let me be very specific. So, I think that there are very specific kinds of businesses
[00:35:24] um and business models that should be overseen. Specifically, I think the first and most important thing is a body that oversees the collection of user data and how it drives targeting and identification. So, privacy concerns around that. That's a that's a no uh brainer. Um that's the first one. And then I think the second one is something that essentially tears the fig leaf off of internet companies and says, you know
[00:35:54] what? You are the equivalent of a publisher and a platform, some weird hybrid that we didn't think could exist when we wrote these rules, and so we're now going to adapt these rules. Because, you know, if you think about it, nobody is happy with the internet publishers today. You know, the the left thinks that it skews right, the right thinks it skews left. Everybody's confused, nobody gets what they want. Um
[00:36:16] and so I think somebody has to step in and kind of sort it out. think this is a good segue to Sach's point, and then I guess we we have we have a fork here now in the discussion. Do we want to go and talk about censorship and that specific issue across Facebook, or do we want to get into Amazon for a second? Which way do we want to go, Sach's? Go to censorship. Well, okay, Yeah, we can we can talk censorship. I mean,
[00:36:38] fence here. Should there be to Chamath's point, Sach's, a regulatory body that decides what people can and cannot say on social networks? Yes or no? No, I mean, let's think about that. What we're saying is we need the the politicians to set up a regulatory body to control how the people talk about the politicians. I mean, that seems like a recipe for disaster. What about specific lies and intentionality to um
[00:37:11] frame uh debates incorrectly? That's not what I'm saying. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying like like you go to a movie and, you know, there's a little blurb here that says who can go to the movie and who cannot. Um you know, you get a you buy an album and it tells you whether there's explicit lyrics or not. Like, you before you turn on the TV, there's like some rating agency that tells you whether your kids
[00:37:32] should be watching it with you. My my point is, what is the equivalent version? We all need to think about what it is, but to say that there should be nothing, I think is crazy. Sach's? Well, well, I think um You so I mean, the those ratings are mostly about um you know, uh standards related to to kids, you know? And um the big internet companies already have a lot of child safety features. I don't know that you need to
[00:38:00] create laws around that. Um and I and I don't think that's what we're talking about anyway. I mean, I think the big debate about Facebook or Twitter is whether they're engaging in censorship or bias, um right? And that that goes way beyond um the this topic of of child safety. So, okay, let's let's unpack I don't think that they're censoring. All all I'm saying is I think you need to label and you need to be more clearly
[00:38:27] designate what this content is, so that people can choose. Like, for example, on Twitter, you know, I follow a bunch of people on the right, I follow a bunch of people on the left, I follow one or two QAnon accounts, only because like I just want to see it all. And then I want to judge, and I feel like if I can see everything, I can sort of like lay it all on a table and figure out where the rough center is and kind of move to
[00:38:48] that, you know? So, you feel you're intelligent and mature enough to do that, Chamath, but the rest of the world isn't? No, not really, but I try to do it because I think it's important for me. Would you rather the platforms or some regulators come up with what you could say on those platforms, Chamath? Again, not what I can see, but there has to be a simple way, for example, you know, you could have something and
[00:39:10] again, this this this all all this does is it breaks business models, which then breaks monetization and it breaks the market cap of these companies. But, for example, let's just say you had a new kind of job, which was, you know, all these you had you hired 500,000 people, and these were a combination of lawyers, journalists, you know, uh academics, all kinds of random people, artists, everybody, okay? Normal folks,
[00:39:37] blue collar folks, and you paid them full-time to basically read stuff and kind of like, you know, uh you know, wisdom of the crowd style, tell us where this out in the spectrum. Okay? Uh this is on the left, this is on the right, this is kind of center, this seems laughable, this seems unbelievable, this seems relatively credible. And I think that you would get, you know, very quickly, and I don't think the latency would be that high, but
[00:40:01] probably minutes, where, you know, 40 or 50,000 signals would tell you whether something is, you know, where something is in the spectrum of, you know, how to understand it. And then that that system that system will get paid get get played, though, I don't get gamed, right? Like someone will figure out a way to turn all of Chamath's tweet labels into super evil tweets, and you know, now and everyone will mute you cuz
[00:40:22] you're super evil. Yeah, I think we just defined George Orwell's 1984. Like Or cancel culture, right? Like If you pay 500,000 or a million people, if if Facebook and Google and these guys come together and Twitter, and they pay a body of people to do this work, um and so you don't know who posts it, you just see the content, you read it, you label it, it's a classifier. So, Chamath, what what what do you think what do you think
[00:40:44] you would get classified as? And then what if you disagreed with what what what you were classified as? So, but David, like what what I'm saying is you wouldn't know it's me. Like if I wrote an article on Medium, right, and I wanted to publish it in Twitter, that article first hits a queue, 50,000 people read it, they human classify it, and then it gets published. And now what if you don't like the way it's classified? And you don't want those
[00:41:07] tags attached to it. And you want to place to publish freely without classification without tagging. Then there will be a company that supports that, too, and you'll see how much people care about that. Yeah, I mean, I think the free market could handle what you're saying, Chamath, cuz that I think David's concerns would be the same as mine, which is who who's doing this classification, what kind of transparency is there? And we already
[00:41:28] have the wisdom of the crowds, which is things that are outrageous automatically get pushed up on Twitter, which allows anonymous, and then Facebook seems to be all the top trends seem to be on the right. Um let's swing over to Sachs. Sachs, what do you think of of the 1984 proposal from uh Chamath of 500,000 sensors uh telling you what to think of a post before you read it? Yeah, I mean, it's it's a it's a it's a
[00:41:53] the question, but it's an insane idea, Chamath. It's it's a it's a little bit like uh Twitter fact-checking uh the politicians they don't like. The digital Politburo. It's it's a it's a form of like soft censorship. Um and, you know, I I I actually think that, you know, Zuckerberg gets attacked the most, but I think his position on speech actually makes makes the most sense. I mean, it seems like what he said is we want to be a neutral free
[00:42:20] speech platform. And, you know, whereas I think, you know, Twitter and um Snapchat, for that matter, are much more likely to engage in either uh you know, censorship or or fact-checking. Which is paradoxical cuz Twitter's initial position, David, was it was the free speech platform. And I totally agree with you. I think Sachs's position is the most defensible, but it also is the most untenable because it's the most it's the it's the
[00:42:45] it's the least uh technologically and just socially palatable, but it is the most defensible and philosophically, in my opinion, the only position you can have. But it's not it's not going to be what wins. Right. Well, it's it's it's the reason why Zuckerberg is hated is because if you're going to defend defend the principle of free speech, you always end up defending speech that society hates. You know, like the ACLU and
[00:43:10] Exactly. Exactly. And and and so, you know, Zuckerberg I think has done the best job sticking to his guns. I mean, the reason why Twitter is sort of uh you know, loved on the left is is precisely because they gave in to the mob, and they've, you know, they've started uh taking down accounts that the mob doesn't like or or or or or, you know, fact-checking them. Right. Whereas I think, you know, Zuck and that and Zuckerberg's refusal to do that, and
[00:43:36] by the way, I don't think he's been like perfect in this regard, but he's been much better about standing up for the principle of free speech. That's what's made him, you know, anathema to the left. I think that and the fact that Facebook still gets blamed for Freeberger, I have two I have I have two specific follow-ups to what David just said for you, which is one, how much of this has to do with anonymity being
[00:43:57] allowed on Twitter versus not being allowed on Facebook? And second, how much of it has to do with the fact that we have algorithms that trend topics. If we didn't have those algorithms trending them, perhaps this wouldn't be an issue because if you wrote something that was inflammatory, it wouldn't and false, let's say, in that situation, both characteristics, it wouldn't go to the top of the list, which is what