[00:55:22] Twitter already have this mechanism because that's what they do to graduate advertisers up the spending curve. You know, you can start as an anonymous advertiser just spending, you know, onesy-twosy dollars um you know, just off of a webpage basically. Just you go through and you do self-serve ads and the more you spend or the more targeting capability you want, you graduate, you self-identify, you give more information, you get more
[00:55:43] capability back, you get more trust in the system. So, it does exist for the customers of these big tech companies. And this is the other big thing. What it shows you is that it's actually solved the problem for the customers. It just doesn't solve it for the you know, feudalist feedstock, which are the users. Because they won't pay. And so, if you said, "Hey, listen, there's an honor system to verify They don't know. Twitter's coming out
[00:56:06] with a paid version. So, they're obviously on the on the halfway there. They're going to come up with a paid version of Twitter. Jack said it on his uh quarterly uh earnings call. to sell I'm going to sell my Twitter stock. Well, I mean, it's not it's not one or the other, Freeberg, though. You you don't have to pick one or the other. You could still be anonymous, but you have the opportunity cuz right now they're
[00:56:24] not accepting new verified users. And unless you're a muckety-muck, you don't get to even go down that route. So, shouldn't everybody have the ability to go down that route? I would like I mean, I personally would like Twitter more if it verified identity. I mean, I don't I don't think there should be a speech tax. I don't know why they have to charge a dollar, but um but but taking taking additional means we have your credit card. It's
[00:56:46] just another hurdle. That's why I put it at a dollar. yeah, yeah. You you you can do it like a $1 auth without actually charging anyone's card. Yes, you could do that. For example, like if you if you actually force people to verify by putting in their social security number, like there's a couple guys I follow. I'll just name them. Scott Adams, who wrote the Dilbert comics. Um there's a guy Mike Block who I'm really not sure I understand his
[00:57:08] politics, but I follow him cuz I cuz you know, he he posts all kinds of But my point is, you know, it's it's not just people on the left, but I think it would be people on the left, people in the center, people on the right who would basically pay the quote-unquote tax because they're already real people. And they would just they would then have more guarantees and insurances that Twitter won't be arbitrary. And I think
[00:57:31] that makes Twitter better. And if it maybe makes it smaller, right? And then maybe you're right, Freeberg. Like 4chan or 8chan or Reddit become good for a different kind of behavior. By the way, I mean, like that's what we do today. We don't eat the same [ __ ] thing every goddamn day. We don't wear the same pants every day. I agree with where he's going with that. I mean, the the the defining feature of Reddit is that it is
[00:57:52] basically anonymous. People have usernames, but you never know who it is. Pseudonyms and it creates a certain kind of conversation and that's fine. Twitter is supposed to be real people. I mean, it's not I mean, Facebook even more so, but you know, when I think about the accounts that I follow on Twitter, um you know, it's it's you know, all of them are are real people. Occasionally you'll get Occasionally you'll get a
[00:58:17] pseudonym. You you'll Yeah, you'll get like um a Startup L Jackson or something like that and um you know, and I I and I think that's okay. Yeah, but you would choose to then follow them. The difference with like a Startup L Jackson is they're not a fake account. They're just using a pseudonym. And you know that when you follow them. And over time they've proven to be to provide some value that makes people follow them. And so, you could be
[00:58:40] anonymous. If you get a certain number of followers, I guess you rise above the noise. Here's another solution. There There are no um there's no nuance about truth or how much you believe this is true as a voting mechanism. So, if you were verified on Twitter and there was a scale that says, "How true How truthful do you believe this is?" And you could slide it uh and pick I you know, from one to five. You could
[00:59:05] actually have another signal there. What do you think about some sort of a signal uh to Chamath's point about uh community value saying, "I buy this. I don't." 97% of people wouldn't use it and the 3% that do would completely bias the results. Okay, Chamath, what do you think would happen? I agree with Freeberg. I I don't I don't think that's a It's just I don't think it's a really good idea. Um My my my only comment was just offering The
[00:59:27] the other thing, by the way, I know it sounds crazy. I was just offering it as like the you know, the way that this um negotiated solution will end up. And it's kind of sort of what these internet companies are being forced to do, which are these weird, you know, pseudo action bodies that like review things and like, you know, so it's all just a slippery slope to that outcome. But by the way, you you you were speaking about Startup
[00:59:50] L Jackson. You know, there was another guy, Super Mugatu. And you know, he turned out to be this, you know, really good young up-and-coming investor, Dan McMurtry. And he was suit you know, he used a pseudonym for a long time, built up a huge audience, and then flipped himself and basically came out and said, "Here, my name is Dan McMurtry and I run a fund and you know, it was wonderful." Yeah, I think it's a
[01:00:11] very good marketing strategy. It's a growth strategy now. Be Startup L Jackson and then you wind up becoming a venture partner. behind VC Brags? Like I'm not ready to do that yet. I'm not ready either. I'm not People thought it was me. I was like, "I'm getting tortured." Wait till you hear that I'm the guy behind Zero Hedge. That'll really freak you out. Well, Zero I mean, Zero Hedge is instructive. Didn't he get banned or did
[01:00:36] she get banned for posting about stuff in coronavirus that eventually turned out to be acceptable and true? Now, imagine if he had verified his account, he had his social security number, he had all that stuff in there. Just verified, that's it. Just information that says Zero Hedge is real. It's a real person. Yeah. And you know, the rule is when you're that level of verified, you can publish whatever you want. So you can you can
[01:00:59] say false statements as a real person. So Donald Trump is a real person, he's a verified account, and he's saying things that Twitter is then determining are false or inflammatory. I would rather, you know, them not try to do it. And I'd rather have pundits that you can believe in. So like the other problem is like look, when you have public figures, you have punditry around public figures, but the problem isn't what that person
[01:01:24] says, it's you can't believe the punditry because half of them are fake. So at some point you have to break the cycle and somebody has to be real. Well, and this is the problem with the the Trump issue in a pandemic is two edge cases put together. And now we're figuring out what the actual cost of it is. Trump said masks are [ __ ] you don't need to wear a mask, blah blah blah. I choose not to wear a mask. I'm
[01:01:48] not going to give people the satisfaction of seeing me in a mask. Turns out masks are correct. We we should have put that or should we have put in front of Trump's non-mask comments, "Hey, this is against what the guidelines are." Or the fact is the WHO said, "The World Health Organization said you shouldn't wear masks." Then it turns out we have a bunch of conservatives dying who didn't wear masks. No, I don't think I don't think you
[01:02:15] should have put anything there. Um And let all the conservatives who believe him die. It's it's not about letting conservatives die. I think that's a crazy way of positioning it. Like he's allowed to have his opinion. And really like if anything I think social media has shown that the way that we used to venerate um like veneration is sort of like it it's kind of it's been disrupted by social media. Like the idea that you
[01:02:38] venerate somebody because like they won an election in a moment is so crazy because they are basically like you and in many cases may be dumber than you. With respect to you know, all these ideas surrounding the idea that we need to regulate these platforms. I think we should just remember that the way stuff gets into your feed is that you make the decision to follow it. You know, these feeds are self-curated. I mean, there is
[01:03:02] this issue about well, you know, the algorithm does sort of emphasize or sort of increase the volume. And you know, we want to make sure those algorithms you know, are done in a a neutral way. They're not they're not biased somehow. But you know, the content that appears in people's feed is content they've chosen to see. With the exception of trending topics on both platforms. Well, like I said, though as long as
[01:03:25] those algorithms are unbiased and work in a speech neutral way, I think that they're fine. But the you know, the the the the reason why Facebook has been boycotted is is that they they refused to censor some of Donald Trump's tweets. You know, and but but you don't see those you don't see those posts rather unless you've chosen to follow them. I think it's crazy that they want to ban him. Problem is it's a chain of it's a chain
[01:03:54] of fake accounts and real accounts, right? Let's be honest, it's a combination of both that exist on both Facebook and Twitter to amplify content in ways that none of us really understand. And I would I would be very skeptical that anybody there really understands every single piece of content, how and why it gets weighted the way it does. And you know, like I bet you that there's probably a way to tell whether
[01:04:19] an account is fake. I mean, obviously they have system integrity tools to figure this out. That's there's no way you could have eliminated 6 billion accounts if that wasn't true. Um But then you know, you choose not to suppress the weighting of those or maybe you do suppress the weighting of them entirely. It's just an all too You're talking about but but in terms of implication, okay, so maybe maybe you can game the trending topics that way.
[01:04:41] But you can't get in my feed unless either I choose to follow you or you you pay to you know, run an ad which my eyes are just trained to skip over. Um So I you know, I I I think if you were to ask the average person, do you believe that you are um sort of um influenced by deceptive content on Twitter and Facebook or you're sort of unduly influenced they would say no. You know, none of us believe that we are. But then if you ask
[01:05:12] But if you if you said, "Do you interact in groups and forums with a bunch of people that you don't know?" The answer would be yes. But what I'm saying is that the average person doesn't believe that they're unduly influenced. But but if you ask them, "Do you think other people are?" they would say Yeah, I get it. Of course like it's like you know, when you're having a [ __ ] Slurpee, it's like you know, do you think that this is unduly
[01:05:32] going to hurt you? No. It's 1,200 calories of liquid sugar. All right, I think we beat this horse to death. There's no solution just on the edges. But let's let's go to Amazon cuz I thought that this was a particularly interesting one. Amazon I thought came out the best of everybody and is the least likely to be broken up. I think some of you agree with that. What were your impressions on Amazon's performance and Amazon in terms of being
[01:06:01] broken up? Let's start with you, Friedberg, and then we'll go back to Chamath. I think the intention of antitrust laws obviously is to protect consumers and protect markets and protect market pricing from being manipulated by monopolists monopolies. And so you know, the the the the point that was made about Walmart years ago is the same point that's being made about Amazon today, which is that they're crushing
[01:06:24] small local businesses. And as a result, there is a lot of damage being done and they are quote-unquote too powerful. But the reality is that the the pricing effect of what they're doing is what needs to ultimately be scrutinized and I think is what will ultimately drive whether or not these guys have either some massive penalty or get forced to break up. And so you ask yourself the question, look, if I'm going to buy call
[01:06:49] it a mattress or let's let's use something like a pillow. Is it cheaper for me to buy that pillow as a consumer through Amazon or from the local store? Now, what if the local store is put out of business because of Amazon? And now Amazon is the only place I can get a pillow. Is the pillow now going to be more expensive or less expensive than it would have been otherwise? And I think that is the lens by which we need to
[01:07:12] kind of assess and the regulators will ultimately assess whether or not Amazon is causing harm in the marketplace because of its position and its power. Friedberg. Look, I have several businesses that sell on Amazon. And it is [ __ ] expensive. One of my companies I'm on the board of, we we've been the number one food product on Amazon multiple times. We we kind of slide up and down the top 10. Can you say what that is? Yeah, Soylent.
[01:07:38] Soylent. And so we sell a lot of Soylent on Amazon. And it is expensive, man. I mean, the fulfillment, the shipping, the advertising fees they force you to pay. I will tell you that as a business owner or board member of a business that sells and I have several others that sell on Amazon, too. It is a it is a grind. And it is cheaper for us to sell directly through Shopify. don't you just raise the price on Amazon?
[01:08:05] So to some extent, so Amazon This is actually part of the problem. So Amazon forces certain best pricing negotiations if you're a large seller on Amazon. You have to make sure in order for them to promote you and make you kind of a sponsored item and show you at the top of the list, you have to give them the best deal. Sort of like what Walmart does, right? You can't have a cheaper price anywhere else. Got it. So that was something that did not
[01:08:26] come up. They force you to have the best price there even if you charge more on your website. In these negotiated deals. Yeah, and so you have to make sure that you're providing um and I'm not sure what the deal is specifically with Soylent. So I don't want to kind of speak incorrectly here. No, I heard the same thing from other folks. What if Soylent of part of what happens. And so I will tell you like it it is harder for it is
[01:08:48] cheaper for me to sell Soylent I I think it's cheaper for some of these products to be So I can tell you my other company which we sell quinoa, it's cheaper for us to sell through retail stores than it is to sell on Amazon. We actually give up more margin selling on Amazon than we would otherwise. Because of the volume and because they've aggregated all the consumers. made the decision as an entrepreneur to sell your quinoa in all places even
[01:09:10] though you lose some margin, you make it back in aggregate. Well, this this goes to the market the market problem. Well, this goes to the market problem because now I as a I have less choice as a business owner because the only place I can find consumers is in this online marketplace called Amazon. I can no longer go sell at 50 local grocery stores because people don't go to the freaking local grocery stores anymore. And that's obviously a
[01:09:30] little bit of an extreme statement, but let's say I'm a pillow guy. I can't go sell at 50 pillow stores, cuz they've all been shut down, cuz all the consumers go to Amazon. you also sell at Target and Walmart and those other competitors who seem to be doing just, you know, pretty well, actually? They're doing well. Yeah, and and a lot of people have said that they're the kind of, you know, the exceptions, but there's a thousand
[01:09:48] versions of Sears and other stores that haven't done as well. Walmart and Target just happen to be extremely well-run businesses, but there's nothing fundamental about those businesses. kicked you off the platform and said, "We're not going to allow third-party sellers." Would you be happier, or would you be sadder? We would be sadder. Got it. Chamath, what are your thoughts? Amazon specific. Yeah, I think David said it really well
[01:10:09] up front, um which is that it's a it's kind of a when and not an if. So, it's, you know, Amazon today, I don't think is at risk, just because its end market is so big, but I think within 5 or 10 years, um it definitely will be looked at through the same lens as Facebook and Google and actually the just those two. Um Look, and I and I think David said it also really well, like the antitrust law that you would get, um you know, to be
[01:10:40] successful if applied to Facebook and Google, has nothing to do with users and content, and it has everything to do with the pricing of the ads to their customers. And if anybody actually were smart enough to figure out whether there was some way in which their auctions were working um that was effectively pricing inventory in a market, quote unquote, or in a system manipulated way, that's probably the best hook to to nab one of