[00:29:21] rules like large accelerated filers, accelerated filers, emerging growth companies, and so forth. So, we're looking to kind of simplify all of this. And part of that also is perhaps smaller companies could benefit from, you know, reduced you know, cadence of reporting, but maybe not. They they have trouble finding analysts to follow their stock. That's another thing that might be an inhibition to go public for small
[00:29:49] companies. And maybe analysts want quarterly, maybe they don't, maybe they would prefer semi-annual, too. So, I think this is a great debate to have right now. And you did have Barry Diller even taking the other side of it where he's like, "I'm just tired of giving predictions. I'm tired of playing this gamesmanship quarterly. I'm just going to release our accounting numbers every month and you all can have fun with the
[00:30:09] numbers as much as you like." >> But that's amazing because you can do that now, right? You can have software that's so vibrant that it can just Jason release a stream and there'll be people that have, you know, developed agents and developed these AIs that will just process all of that and they will then publish out a dashboard and the whole thing will be almost real time. It could be real time. Yeah, and there are services that do
[00:30:33] semi-interesting things already that you can buy that maybe people with budgets for data streams can do. Let's talk a little bit, Chairman Atkins, about the history of accreditation in this country. I think when you brought up Microsoft in the early part of your career watching these companies go public. I did a little research while we were here and you were speaking. Microsoft and Apple went out with a thousand and 1200 employees each
[00:30:58] and about 400 million dollars in revenue in today's dollars. 120 million in those dollars. So obviously there was this incredible opportunity for you to create and place a bet on these companies as an individual with a stock trading account and maybe move from you know one tier in societal wealth to another and that's a big part of the American dream. But as we talk about private markets, the SEC has ancient rules now going on
[00:31:24] close to a century old to protect investors called accreditation laws. They apply to 95% of the of the country apparently and about 5% of us get to trade in some way in private companies where the value is created. The SEC has been challenged and charged with changing these evolving these and it never seems to happen. My perception is which SEC chair is ever going to take this on because hey, it's just easier to keep the status quo. But
[00:31:53] is there not an argument I know there are some legislation now to create a sophisticated investor test. So instead of you inherited a million dollars you're qualified to buy stock in Uber when it's a private company. Why not a sophisticated test like a driver's license and you learn uh how to trade in private companies and you get to participate in that market. Instead of just saying to people well you can only participate in sports
[00:32:18] betting or blackjack in Vegas but you can't if you were an Uber driver or an Airbnb host or an HR person using LinkedIn as a private company buy those stocks. Well you have an insight and you have an instinct into maybe purchasing. So So talk about the accreditation test and sophisticated investor tests and and your personal view on Yeah, well, great point. And so, well, I here's one chairman who is going to tackle that
[00:32:42] issue. And so, we intend to do that. The accredited investor definition. And so, interestingly, I mean, to your point, in the statute, in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, I believe, or Investment Companies Act of 1940, it there's a definition of that and it includes knowledge, not just, you know, wherewithal or sort of assets that you have. It includes it has the word knowledge in it. So, to your point, why can't we have, and people have
[00:33:11] suggested this over time, equivalent of a driver's test or something like that or recognize somebody who has a CPA or, you know, a CFA or whatever. But, you know, maybe a type of a series 7, but, you know, not so complicated as that that FINRA administers. So, part of the thing is like, who's going to make the test, who's going to administer it, and how do you get there? But, anyway, but we can Those are issues that we want to tackle.
[00:33:41] And I remember when this issue came up when I was a commissioner back in the aughts, there was one comment letter that came in that really struck me. And it said, "Today I am able to This is the comment letter commenter speaking. Today I am able to buy a hedge fund or private asset or whatnot. But, tomorrow, once you raise the standard of, you know, I have to have X amount of money of assets or income or whatever, I
[00:34:14] won't be able to. So, what's changed? Why Why are you going to take that away from me? So, why does a finance professor who makes a $100,000 and lives in an apartment and doesn't have any other assets, why is he not able, to your point, to invest in some of these types of securities, whereas an heiress who just came into $10 million or something like that suddenly is. Now, she can hire people to advise her, but they could be dummies,
[00:34:43] too. I mean, who knows what they are. But, so anyway, so I think we have to take a fresh look at all this and we are going to do that here this year and with a proposed rule to address that. I have a question around the derivatives markets. Well, actually, before I ask the question about it, I I want to ask about the futures markets, which is you have an enormous number of high-frequency trading firms that really dominate
[00:35:08] futures volume. Can you just tell us both the value that these folks are providing, is it truly liquidity, or is it, and there's been some speculation about this, very sophisticated market arb? And if it's the latter, where do you think we need to do necessarily a better job? I think the best example is if you look at this, the volume of futures activities and spot prices of certain commodities, the basis is starting to kind of get out of whack.
[00:35:38] So, just tell me about the market participants part of these derivatives and futures markets and what you think about what's going on. Our markets have three core types of participants. We've got the hedgers, we've got uh speculators, and we've got market makers, and the liquidity is really the the result of all three. So, there's going to be market participants that really rely on whether it's a cattle contract or a credit default swap
[00:36:03] product, they need to to enter into these agreements to hedge key risks in their business, and then you've got folks that are willing to provide liquidity, whether they're speculating and taking another position on that for for their proprietary basis, or they're doing so to make markets and earn a spread. And that's right. We we're regulating these markets, we're making sure that the trades that are going through have integrity and that folks
[00:36:26] aren't uh you know, wash trading and trying to manipulate markets. There are some strategies that raise particular risk of manipulation or fraud and we police that. We've taken actions in the past to make sure that the the exchanges are not subject to illicit behavior and and and trading and the exchanges similar to my point earlier relates prediction markets are first line of defense here as well. They surveil their
[00:36:51] markets and we're in constant communication with them as well as the traders were often times sending information requests to traders about their activity. So I do believe that the these all three participants are very important to make sure that our markets are liquid. So on that last point that you just made which I think is a very good one. Post GFC there was like these central clearing functions right to make sure
[00:37:13] that derivatives contracts were getting not getting out of control and we had a good sense of systemic risk but it turns out that one blind spot everybody has is to these bilateral swaps. I mean I've done certain bilateral swaps with certain counterparties. It's not clear to me that you know that on the back end of it. Can you talk about that and how you think that that should stay the same change what that is whether that keeps
[00:37:36] you up at night whether it should keep us up at night. >> Sure well I'm not a huge fan of Dodd-Frank but in the wake of Dodd-Frank we got swap data reporting and these bilateral over-the-counter swaps are now generally all there are some exceptions but sent to swap data repositories where we're getting information on a daily basis as well as these third-party repositories that compile that information. So the markets
[00:38:00] are much less opaque. We have transparency today but my concern about the swap data reporting regulations is that they have really been a tool for our enforcement divisions in the past where you've got so many different fields it's really difficult to characterize each different type of swap. I'll tell you when I was in private practice and folks started entering into Bitcoin swaps and in crypto swaps, characterizing that as a
[00:38:24] type of derivative relative to cattle and wheat and other commodities, really was a whole lot of legal advising and a a lot of wasted money, frankly. So, we need to simplify. We need to make sure that our swap data reporting regime is rational and coherent and makes sense for the everyday participant in the markets. You shouldn't have to go hire a high-priced law firm just to enter into a risk management tool. But, these markets
[00:38:49] these these developments post Dodd-Frank. Some of them make sense, some of them don't. A big priority of mine is going through rule by rule to make sure that all of our regulations are really the minimum effective dose. I have a question for both of you. Is there something that if you could borrow from the other person's regulatory toolbox? Mhm. >> [clears throat] >> Something that they can do that you cannot that you would love to also be
[00:39:13] able to do? From my perspective, one thing for new products that the CFTC has is called self-certification. So, for repetitive products that you know, once you go ahead and approve the general type of framework for it, then it's self-certification by the markets and by the people who are of course coming forward with the products. We don't necessarily have that kind of thing. We do for some things like for ETFs and
[00:39:44] whatnot where we've come up with rules that then you know, then it's up to the market participants to abide by the rules and have their product conform. But, on so many other products, we have a a much more complex you know, labor-intensive, let's just say, approach to it that requires approval by the staff and the commission and and that sort of thing. And whereas it's much more streamlined on the CFTC side. Well, on our side, there's there's
[00:40:12] one regulation that I think's been really effective on the SEC's uh and that's the alternative trading system. So, on both sides of the house, we have full-blown uh you know, very very intensive exchange registrations. Uh the SEC went ahead with a rulemaking that allows broker-dealers to then set up an alternative trading system, and it's really a an exchange-light framework, and I'd love to see that on the CFTC side as well. Chairman Gensler,
[00:40:37] I want to talk about fund formation in the the power of venture capital in the US economy. 20% of the GDP of this country comes from venture-backed companies. It is 40% of the S&P. Obviously, with the max 7 contributing heavily, uh comes from venture-backed companies that we all know and love their products. But, fund formation for venture capital is ancient, and there are massive limitations on it. There's two ways,
[00:41:02] obviously, to address this. One is the path to accreditation for people to become sophisticated. We just spoke about that. But, the other is how many people are allowed to participate in a fund. As but one example, when I raised my last fund, I had well over a hundred million dollars in accredited investors who wanted to have a small bite of the apple and get into venture capital, but I could only accept a hundred. I could
[00:41:24] only accept ten million. And doesn't make any logical sense because, in fact, it would be better if more people could put in smaller amounts. Many hands makes for light work, and more people could participate in this. This would have a dual impact on the economy. One, more startups would get funded, and two, more individual investors would get to participate in this very closed ecosystem known as venture capital. So, I was wondering
[00:41:50] your thoughts on venture capital specifically in formation of what is the driver of the US economy. Well, you raise a great point, but a lot of that that you're talking about with funds is statutorily uh mandated. And so, there are two big exemptions uh in the uh Investment Company Act of 1940 uh that are, you know, pertinent here. And so those were adopted by Congress with a lot of debate and and whatnot. And so so that is more difficult to
[00:42:23] change and there's certain ways that we can change them. And so we are going to look at this and there you have a lot of different types of accredited investors. You have qualified purchasers. You have you know, also qualified institutional purchasers and and and whatnot or buyers rather. And so you so all of these things need to be you know, I think looked at anew and where we have the authority through our exemptive power under the various
[00:42:51] statutes will be able to use that. But I do think that especially now as we talk about opening up private funds or or private types of products to a broader range of people including to you know, 401K plans and whatnot. We're we're working with the Department of Labor and the Treasury Department to address this and we all feel very strongly that here you have to have good guardrails. You just can't open up the
[00:43:22] barn door wide open that we have to have standards for what can go into these sorts of you know, plans 401K plans, pension plans. But retail investors are already exposed to the private markets through their pension funds, insurance companies and all that. So all of this needs to have a you know, fresh look and you know, come up with good new ideas to basically provide democratize it. And just as a quick follow up there, one
[00:43:51] that I think would be super easy is just hey, 10% of whatever your last two years average income was or you know, no more than 5 or 10% of your net worth. Michael, there are some common sense ideas here that would would increase the the of participation. Can you think of Michael, any reason that we should restrict Americans from being able to participate in venture capital? Is there any argument here if there were some basic level controls as
[00:44:17] I've outlined here, sophistication, taking a test, or a cap, you can only put 5K in, you make 150K a year, you can put in 15K per year. What are your thoughts, Michael? I'm a believer in free markets and I really think that allowing more access to our capital markets is is really a powerful thing for everyday Americans. We saw the ICOs, you know, the initial coin offerings where things just kind of moved into
[00:44:41] crypto and you had all sorts of investments in different projects and they were attempting to get under the radar of the securities laws even though they were capital raises with different tokens and I think the market's always find a way. So, allowing for more access, decreasing some of the requirements around accreditation, I think that's a really great thing for the American people and and really will just allow for people to have some skin
[00:45:06] in the game and maybe they lose sometimes, but other times they really hit it big and it's a great thing for for everyone. So, nature finds a way, right? Like if Exactly. >> allow people to participate, they start doing ICOs and when I looked at them, I looked at 100, Chamath, I said, "Wow, 99% of these are white papers with spelling errors in them. These are not the real companies that you and I look at in our daily lives in
[00:45:25] venture capital." So, it's reminds me of what happened with crypto, which is, "Hey, it went offshore. It went to another stream." I want to talk about just the capital markets globally. We're in this very unique moment where there just seems to be this separation where the American capital markets and you two are tips of the spear have enormous credibility. And then when you look at some of these other capital markets,
[00:45:46] Paul, you mentioned the UK, but I hate to say it so bluntly, but the UK's a disaster. It is impossible to raise money there. It's impossible to raise money or innovate in a European exchange. It's a little bit easier in Asia, but it's complicated. But then you do see some of these upstart exchanges that are trying to push and innovate in Abu Dhabi and KSA etc. If you just take a step back for a second, I just love
[00:46:09] your perspective on what's going to happen to capital formation and specifically what does America need to do to get this next couple of trillion dollars to be brought on shore? Well, first of all, I think, you know, our our capital markets are the envy of the world. I mean, it really is amazing when I travel through Europe or Japan and uh and the UK and and and Middle East and whatnot. People really envy our