[00:44:17] I've outlined here, sophistication, taking a test, or a cap, you can only put 5K in, you make 150K a year, you can put in 15K per year. What are your thoughts, Michael? I'm a believer in free markets and I really think that allowing more access to our capital markets is is really a powerful thing for everyday Americans. We saw the ICOs, you know, the initial coin offerings where things just kind of moved into
[00:44:41] crypto and you had all sorts of investments in different projects and they were attempting to get under the radar of the securities laws even though they were capital raises with different tokens and I think the market's always find a way. So, allowing for more access, decreasing some of the requirements around accreditation, I think that's a really great thing for the American people and and really will just allow for people to have some skin
[00:45:06] in the game and maybe they lose sometimes, but other times they really hit it big and it's a great thing for for everyone. So, nature finds a way, right? Like if Exactly. >> allow people to participate, they start doing ICOs and when I looked at them, I looked at 100, Chamath, I said, "Wow, 99% of these are white papers with spelling errors in them. These are not the real companies that you and I look at in our daily lives in
[00:45:25] venture capital." So, it's reminds me of what happened with crypto, which is, "Hey, it went offshore. It went to another stream." I want to talk about just the capital markets globally. We're in this very unique moment where there just seems to be this separation where the American capital markets and you two are tips of the spear have enormous credibility. And then when you look at some of these other capital markets,
[00:45:46] Paul, you mentioned the UK, but I hate to say it so bluntly, but the UK's a disaster. It is impossible to raise money there. It's impossible to raise money or innovate in a European exchange. It's a little bit easier in Asia, but it's complicated. But then you do see some of these upstart exchanges that are trying to push and innovate in Abu Dhabi and KSA etc. If you just take a step back for a second, I just love
[00:46:09] your perspective on what's going to happen to capital formation and specifically what does America need to do to get this next couple of trillion dollars to be brought on shore? Well, first of all, I think, you know, our our capital markets are the envy of the world. I mean, it really is amazing when I travel through Europe or Japan and uh and the UK and and and Middle East and whatnot. People really envy our
[00:46:37] huge capital markets and how robust they are, how fair they are, and it goes back to our rule of law and enforceability of contract, and that's the essence of what is the foundation of you know, our freedom and our ability to uh you know, do innovate and and have all these new products. So, they would love to have that plus the um you know, the I guess what they also really envy is our our risk appetite here in the United
[00:47:08] States, where people are have an equity investment culture, and that is really largely absent in Japan and in Europe. And the in a lot of ways they can't get out of their way because out of their own way because through their regulatory system and whatnot. I mean, ours is bad enough, but they in many ways take it to a different extreme with a very narrowly constructed code that really hamstrings them and is is
[00:47:38] not very flexible in the future. So, that's where as far as if we can open up our markets as far as you know, some of the things that we've been talking about here as far as new products, allow innovation to take place here on on shore, and then also to fix some of the things like the accredited investor investor standard and that sort of thing. I think we, you know, can then to your point, you know, turbocharge it to continue our growth.
[00:48:06] Crypto's been a bit of the wild west and we have things NFTs, ICOs, meme coins. They feel >> [laughter] >> they look like stocks to people, whether it's dollar sign Trump or dollar sign Doge, whatever it is. But they have a ticker symbol, they have a chart, they trade like a stock. What do we need to do in regards to crypto? What what should and where is the line between launching a a crypto token and the public being protected there, Chairman
[00:48:35] Akers, versus hey, it's a publicly traded stock. Because for a lot of them they get into it and they're the suckers at the table. It feels, it looks, it quacks like a duck, it looks like a duck, and so they buy it like it's a duck, but it's not a duck, obviously. So What do And And this was Gensler's, I think, you know, maybe a logical point, although his execution was poor. There was a logical point to hey, we
[00:48:59] have rules. We can't let you break these rules for your dollar sign whatever if everybody else is doing their company properly, you know, and following this set of rules. So So how do we evolve that to protect, which is the top mandate, the consumer? Well, that's a great question. I think the real problem has been definitionally and so the the kind of the very vague lines and so people weren't sure they were and as
[00:49:25] Mike was talking about, you know, people play paid lawyers a lot of money to try to do it. Some lawyers just gave happy talk and then people got in trouble with the SEC and other lawyers just said forget it, go offshore, you know, you there's no use to even trying here in the United States. So that's part of what, you know, Mike and I are trying to do as far as harmonize. So we're if it's a tokenized security, then that's one
[00:49:50] thing under the SEC's rule book, but if it's things like uh tokenized also digital coin a digital token sorry or digital tools or digital collectibles, then those sorts of things uh fall under the CFTC's oversight and their rule book is is really more apposite for these sorts of things than ours is, but you have to have a logical oversight over things like that to prevent fraud because the one thing that really
[00:50:24] you know attracts people to our markets from overseas is that they perceive that there is you know that fraudsters do get caught and you know we have protections around as we've been talking about inside trading and then as things like that trading on material non-public information by insiders. That is you know so we have a robust So thing for that. Mike, unpack that for us and maybe you could add to it the role of
[00:50:49] sometimes we see celebrities promoting these things and it just feels like it's a bit of it was a bit out of control there for a bit and and your job is to make it controlled. So so what should the crypto community that wants to release utility tokens and participate here? What do they need to know going forward? We have to separate the capital raising activity and selling something for the purpose of raising
[00:51:14] capital to form a business when you're going out there and giving folks the white papers and the business plans and making promises to them from the actual thing that people are buying. The tokens themselves in many of these cases are just goods. As Chairman Akon said they could be a digital commodity something that's an input for a network like Ethereum or Solana or anything else where you're using it for a function within the network.
[00:51:39] But the capital raise is something separate and they could be collectibles like an NFT or tool that you're using to run a command on a network, that sort of stuff. I mean, they're they're they're commodities or they're goods or or things that potentially neither of us regulate. We don't go out and regulate widgets that are sold as part of a capital raising. The The SEC has brought many cases over the years related to
[00:52:04] fundraising with chinchillas and whiskey barrels and all sorts of things, but we've not had those traded as securities in our markets and and we don't want that for the digital world, either. As we start to wrap here, I have a final question, which is both of you sit on top, again, as I said, the most, in my opinion, important capital market in the world. You guys are responsible for the well-functioning and the pass-through of literally tens
[00:52:32] and tens of trillions of dollars. You are responsible for enabling and not slowing down just the great vibrancy of the American economy as reflected in these markets. That's the upside. The downside is that that also comes with a lot of pressure when you're in the bowels of the job. And I obviously I don't know what that's like every day, but what are the couple of things that the two of you think about at night? What are the critical
[00:52:56] risks to this experiment that you just know you have to get right or the critical issues that in the next year or two you must get right for all of this to continue. Maybe Michael, start with you and then Paul. Two big things concern me. The first has been this push of innovation offshore. We've got to get it back here in the United States. That's really what's built this country over the years. Thomas Edison didn't have to go
[00:53:20] ask for permission to go innovate. We need to make sure that our builders, our visionaries, our entrepreneurs have the courage and and the confidence to come and and develop new things and build here in our financial markets. And that means blockchain, that means artificial intelligence, that means prediction markets. We'll set the rules for it, make sure that it's possible to do it, but we don't want everyone fleeing to
[00:53:44] the Cayman Islands and the Bahamas and and Russia to go do this stuff. So, that's really concerning to me. I want to make sure that the folks are back here in the US. The second piece, of course, is the the risk to our system. If we've got too much of manipulation and insider trading fraud, I mean, why not trade, you know, elsewhere? And and there's real risk to our investors. And so, making sure that we have the right
[00:54:05] controls, customer protections, we can't have another FTX in the United States where funds are lost and and there's an absolute fraud on on our American people. So, so that's a really critical concern. Balancing innovation with our financial system, the integrity of our markets, and we're going to do it, but it's it's definitely hard work ahead of us. And for me, so I mean, I I agree completely with the innovation point
[00:54:32] that, you know, we need to make sure that we are allowing people to innovate here on shore. And FTX one is a great point where there was one part of FTX that didn't implode with the rest of it, and that was their investment in a swaps trading platform called LedgerX, which which was supervised by the CFTC and examined, and they had they they had their accounts segregated and all that. So, no customers lost any money through that, and and it
[00:55:04] still lives on, you know, today. So, so my worry is that we're fighting always the last battle. You know, the French built the Maginot Line, and that didn't work very well. And then, so we had the same thing coming out of the financial crisis. So, we have to think ahead. We're confronting a lot of new challenges. So, artificial intelligence, of course, you know, is, you know, developing very quickly. And but we're also seeing it on the fraud
[00:55:33] side. I mean, the horrible stories I hear about people whose who've lost their entire retirement nest egg through fraud where there are confidence people who you know through all sorts of manipulative types of communications then draw people in and get them to you know send off their their money elsewhere or even their their Coinbase account or things like that where they give passwords away with you know these
[00:56:04] confidence artists out there. So, we have to be attuned to that. We have to be the cop on the beat because that's the real threat that will lead people not to necessarily you know invest their money here but but I think you know we are a cop on the beat and we're you know out to make sure that we can find the bad guys but we can't then put too much overwhelming you know restrictions on the good guys so that they can't innovate and can't
[00:56:32] come out with new products. Those are great answers. I think both opportunity and policing. I just want to end with a final thought. As these markets open up wagering, stocks, crypto, we do have a an issue a second order effect that's happening. Young men 18 to 30, 45% report that they've had a problem with wagering gambling and 10% meet the addiction criteria. A third have placed a bet. The upside to this in
[00:56:58] my mind is we have a generation, generation bet, that understands [clears throat] capital formation markets and how to participate in them but we do have a downside. Outcomes, yeah. Outcomes, yes. And to really think about that there's obviously a downside here which is a very young developing brain might not be ready for that. So, so Mike and then and then Chairman Atkins, what are your thoughts on how to protect these young
[00:57:21] men who you know they're they're excited about participating in these markets but maybe their brains aren't fully formed and ready to take on that responsibility. I think education's critical here. We need to make sure that our market participants are providing information to participants and we don't regulate the casinos and the gambling and all of that and and I but I do believe that that is a bit a key piece
[00:57:44] of their initiative as well to make sure that folks are informed when they're coming into to the casinos. We should do the same at the federal level, make sure that our participants voluntarily, of course, this isn't necessarily something that that we mandate on our derivatives exchanges, but I do think it's an important thing to be informing them public. Of course, we've got really robust standards on brokers and on our
[00:58:05] exchanges and they're making sure that there's the persons that are participating in the markets have the ability to participate, that they're suitable to invest and and participate in our markets and I think those controls combined with some education are really going to be important here. Chairman Ekins I agree with that and but it's not just education of the many cases children or and you know adult young men and and women
[00:58:29] too, but it's also their parents you know, especially for the children where I think there is a large ignorance on the parents part as to you know, what their kids are doing and with their phones or elsewhere and you know, getting involved in these things. So you know, I hear that from a lot of my friends so just you know, apocryphally there but so that's we we shouldn't forget that. The schools are important as well, but the
[00:58:54] signs of you know, that sort of addiction, you know, are really you know, important to to recognize that and then take action. But we have the same thing with other sorts of gambling, lotto or lotteries and and that sort of thing. So it's not just in the securities markets or crypto markets or elsewhere, but it's also on everyday things that we have to really watch out for. >> I love your suggestion Mike because
[00:59:20] I I noticed Robinhood now if you want to go trade something complex, puts, calls, you know, spreads, everything, it forces you to go through a little wizard to make sure you understand it and and to teach you what exactly you're doing. So, I think education so critical and it can exist at the platform level. This has been an incredible hour plus. Uh I want to thank you two gentlemen for joining us here on the All-in interview.
[00:59:45] And we'll see you all next time. Bye-bye. Thanks, gentlemen. I'm going all in.
[01:00:04] I'm going all [music] in.