[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome to the all in interview program. Today, we are delighted to have two of the most important individuals shaping capital markets over the next couple of years. SEC Chair Paul Atkins is with us as well, as CFTC Chair Michael Seelig. Welcome to the all in interview show, gentlemen. Glad to be here. >> much. Great to be here. Yeah. Also with me, my bestie, Chamath Palihapitiya, who is known
[00:00:27] to participate in capital markets. I think there's a great structure here for us to talk, many opportunities, and then guardrails and things that we should be concerned about in such a dynamic time. Chairman Atkins, this is your third tour of duty since the '90s. Things have changed dramatically, so maybe just to start us off here, and you know, Chamath's got a lot of great questions ready to go. I'm just curious,
[00:00:52] in your time, let's say the last 40 years or so, what has what have you noted here about capital markets and how they've changed, and what's important for us looking forward? Well, thanks. It's great to be here and see both of you all today. Well, so I started out as a young lawyer in New York City doing corporation finance work, you know, new offerings and that sort of thing in the mid '80s. And and it's and there, you know, to to be a
[00:01:21] startup company and to to build your products and do R&D and all that, you had to go public in order to so Apple and Microsoft, Advanced Micro Devices, all of those companies started off as as you know, IPOs. And so, Andreessen Horowitz has a really, I think, a really good bar chart where they compare the companies of the early and mid to late '80s to today, where I mean, it just basically demonstrates through the
[00:01:55] ROI that insiders versus the buyers of the public stock you know enjoyed from those early companies insiders being you know there's not much private equity or venture capital back then but the insiders meaning the officers directors and whatnot they had a relatively thin slice of the entire pie I mean everyone made out well obviously but the public purchasers of in the IPO you know made out very well over the years and then
[00:02:25] had the lion's share of that. You look at today the current situation where you know we have robust private capital markets and we have fully today half the number of public companies as we had 30 years ago and it's completely reversed return on investment is you know mainly to the insiders private equity venture capital corporate officers and employees versus the the public because it's they're they're mature companies when they
[00:02:54] actually go public. So that's a huge change the private markets are very robust and and strong but but anyway but American capital markets are are very healthy I think. When you look at that back then there was a real requirement for everybody to do an enormous amount of work because to your point these companies were quite young. You'd be a four or five year old company and you'd go public because the going public was not about monetizing
[00:03:23] anything. It was actually a fundraising moment. It was like a series C or or a series D. I guess the answer is the reason it changed was probably because to your point there's all these returns and so investors said well let's go capture these in the private markets for us and our LPs. But what it also does it then change the nature of how these markets behave. Can you just comment on the amount of time companies are staying
[00:03:48] private the dearth of the IPO because it has become a liquidity defining moment and is much more so than the financing moment and whether things should change and if so, how do you want to change that and why? >> Yeah, well, it's a free market, obviously, so, you know, investors we should allow the market to develop as it will, but you're exactly right. So, now it's more of a liquidity event for insiders and and so what we are seeing now is
[00:04:18] in the private markets, you know, there's a lot of capital that's where people are willing to deploy it to companies at early stages and then to to stay on, but at the same time, there is there are inhibitions for for private companies to go public and one of them is the the the cost of our rules to comply with our rules and the disclosure ones, especially where you have all the annual report requirements, proxy statements and all of that. And
[00:04:47] so, and then quarterly reporting and and so forth. So, that is one big inhibition where things are not necessarily focused on materiality anymore. Are you allowed to convene a group of people and start to line item these rules out or change them or does it have to go through some much more robust process where there's a lot of competing reasons why some people, some lobbies maybe, may want these rules? >> Oh, for sure. I mean, there are vested
[00:05:13] interests in everything, but that is part of my program for this year and going into next is to go through our rule rule book. We need a spring cleaning. We need to clean out the attic, the basement and the garage and to really look at things unlike the agency has ever done before with a real focus on materiality. So, that's one. The second to make IPOs great again is to focus on litigation and and so that is another thing that is
[00:05:41] a key inhibition, I think, for people to go from the private markets to public, the threats of uh class action lawsuits and vexatious uh litigation with every dip in the um in the stocks. You have uh issues like mandatory arbitration, fee shifting, you know, loser pays, that sort of thing. Both of which Delaware has recently um outlawed for public companies, and but there are other states out there. And then the third is
[00:06:06] the weaponization of corporate governance around shareholder proposals, that sort of thing. So, it becomes a pain to deal with the annual general shareholder meeting and and that sort of thing. those three are maybe not the only inhibitions, but they're three key ones that I've heard over and over and over again over the last uh 30-some years from venture capitalists, private equity folks, investment bankers,
[00:06:29] lawyers, and etc. So. Mike, what are your top priorities for 2026 in the CFTC? Well, like Paul, I started off uh working in private practice at a law firm, and right around 2021, 2022, every week my clients would get a subpoena from Gary Gensler or CFTC, uh and were faced with this onslaught of regulation by enforcement. They were faced with regulations that did not work for their business models, and these were crypto
[00:06:57] firms, prediction markets, artificial intelligence firms, as well as our traditional financial market participants. They were just relentlessly attacked by the the federal government under the prior administration. So, I really came into government to help right the ship, to help make sure that we have purpose-fit rules and regulations for new innovative technologies and financial products. And so, a big piece of my agenda has been
[00:07:20] crypto. Uh our crypto asset markets, as as you all I'm sure are tracking, there's some legislation that we're really hopefully uh working with David Sachs to get across the finish line in the president. Um but but that's going to be a key piece. So, the CFTC would uh have amount of authority over the spot markets, and we're getting ready to to implement those rules should the legislation get across the finish line,
[00:07:43] another key piece of our agenda has also been modernizing and upgrading our rules and regulations for on-chain software systems, blockchain networks, and other types of digital asset products, regardless of legislation. It's really important that we have future-proof rules and regulations that are ready for the innovations of both today and tomorrow, and that's blockchain, but that's also artificial intelligence and
[00:08:07] and other areas of technology innovations. So, there's a lot of things we need to change within our regulatory framework to make sure that we're ready to accommodate that. Let me ask both of you guys a question. So, this sits at the intersection of tokenization, crypto, and what I would call systemic risk. So, if all if everything becomes tokenized and digitized and 24/7, what do you think needs to happen to make sure that the systemic risks to the
[00:08:37] system are managed? And here's what I mean. If you go on X, I've gone down the automated trading rabbit hole. So, I don't know if you guys know, but there are these incredible young, vibrant projects that are basically replacing a Citadel, replacing a Millennium, and they're building these automated, agent-based hedge funds that are transacting across all kinds of markets all the time. And on the one hand, I'm completely
[00:09:03] attracted to it. I think it's totally democratic. It's the free market. It's like, let's figure out what's going on there. And on the other hand, I ask question, where's the kill switch? Or where's the circuit breaker, if you will? And I just want to give you both the chance to talk about how you see these markets converge, and both the positives and the negatives of it. >> Absolutely. We need to be considering
[00:09:26] these risks as we're developing rules, and and this to me is is the whole reason we need to have a purpose-fit regulatory framework for these products and and autonomous agents and all of that. Up until now, I think the approach has always been let's apply the old rules and regulations and and that's going to work out and make sure that nobody can actually innovate and and create something new. So, we are embracing
[00:09:50] these opportunities in the market. We need to study them and make sure that we understand the risks, but we can develop rules that accommodate that. So, having a regime in place that says go build, don't ask us for permission, but we need to study that, work with the market participants, understand the risks and on our end we need to set up guardrails. So, I do think there are unique risks when you have the ability for an agent
[00:10:13] to go out and deploy capital on basically an autonomous basis and and that's going to be something that our markets we've really really never seen before as regulators, but that doesn't mean we have to stand in the way and block it. I I think we need to really understand the risks, make sure that we have the right guardrails, whether that is us operating nodes on blockchains or or really having technologists that are studying the
[00:10:35] contracts in the code, but I don't think there's any reason we can't have this technology built here in America. >> I agree with that and from from my point of view, there's so many benefits to come from distributed ledger ledger technology for the financial services industry where we're right at the cusp of achieving T0, basically, you know, immediate delivery versus payment, receipt versus payment on chain by you
[00:11:01] know, digital assets and so that's pretty exciting. What we may even have to build in speed bumps, you know, to prevent fraud and and things like that, but for many and for some instruments it might not be possible, but your discussion there with 24/7 and all that I think is is really an exciting prospect, but there are challenges from you know, the liquidity perspective, you know, having a you know, the whole
[00:11:27] concept of best bid and offer, what does that mean? So, you know, that's one that we will we will be wrestling with. But, ultimately, at least our approach is and and what Mike and I are striving to do in harmonizing the approach of our two agencies is to and hopefully we'll get a statute out of the whole Clarity Act discussions going on in the hill right now. That's really necessary to future-proof what we're doing so there
[00:11:57] is no backsliding in the future. But, we need to focus on, you know, if it's a security underneath and it's tokenized, it's still as a security and it's still the securities laws still apply. But, it's up to us to make sure that our rules are fit for purpose. And as the whole purpose changes and as the delivery mechanism changes, we need to accommodate that. Unfortunately, in the previous administration, you know, we
[00:12:26] said, "Oh, come in and talk to us. You know, we have a simple form for you to fill out. It's on our website." Well, haha, it's called an S-1 and it takes lots of lawyers and accountants to try to figure figure out how to do it for an existing company, much less for a new digital asset, a crypto sort of asset that you know, where the form is completely inapposite. There's no board of directors, there are no offices
[00:12:50] around the country, around the world, or whatever. It's you know, just the thing needs to be adjusted so that it is fit for purpose. So, that's what we're striving to do, going through our rulebook to make sure it can accommodate the new technologies. So, let's build on Chamath's conversation here and his points. One of the key dangers and innovations opportunities in the market is leverage. And we see it obviously, hedge funds
[00:13:17] have been doing this for a long time. We're starting to see it in prediction markets, Mike. And we're seeing it in crypto. What is the proper amount of leverage and who should set those rules. Obviously, you have Congress making laws, you're responsible for executing them, Chairman, in order to make sure the markets are orderly and that you protect investors. So, just walk us through what you think is the proper amount of leverage and your
[00:13:42] framework and you've been at this for a while as we mentioned. How has that changed over time? Educate us a bit on how we got to a world in which Bitcoin investors might be 100x or 50x and people might be leveraging their prediction market and seems like it has a function but it also seems like almost every story starts and ends with leverage. Right. Well, so I think it depends on the marketplace and and on the type cuz obviously you have banks
[00:14:08] and they're all about fractional deposits and and all of that and and lending. Um so, uh you know, so we we've gone through that back in 2008 and 2009 in the financial crisis and going all the way back to 1929 and then even in the 1800s, obviously, all the repeated problems with um you know, financial disruption in financial markets. So, we have to be careful about that. There are all sorts of rules for broker dealers,
[00:14:35] for banks, for in the futures markets, for margin and all of that to um like put a lid on some of this and to have some controls around it and and uh transparency. You know, in the futures markets, the the uh the the exchanges have a lot of power, you know, over their members and over margin and you closing things down. We saw that even in the COVID time and and whatnot. So, when the markets got hairy there. So, um you
[00:15:01] know, those things are constantly looked at. The Fed plays a role as well, um you know, with margining in the securities markets. So, all that uh has to be adjusted and now we need to look carefully at these new markets and then see what's analogous and see what authority we have and uh and then make sure that, you know, we're not killing uh trading but we also have to keep an eye out for the future to make sure that
[00:15:26] we're not allowing things to then blow up in our face. Here's a question that may sound dumb, so I apologize if it does, and this is to both of you. I think a lot of people don't understand, or at least I don't, where the SEC and the CFTC cooperate most effectively, but then as with all things, where does coordination maybe break down? Could you just explain that to people so that we understand and level set about what the
[00:15:53] expectations of each organization are and how you guys actually work together day-to-day when you have to? >> Having been around the two agencies now for 30-some years, um I can really say that unfortunately the two um and not necessarily at the commissioner level, but uh certainly at the staff, there was a lot of sniping, uh you know, back and forth. So, I compare it to two uh fortresses with a no man's land in
[00:16:17] between. And so, the no man's land is littered with a bodies of would-be products that people were unsure like, is it CFTC? Is it SEC? crossfire between the two just killed the products. They never went to market. Single stock futures, portfolio margining, which has so much potential benefits for um making the financial markets safer and more efficient. But, Mike and I are setting out to change that, and I'll let
[00:16:44] you uh go forth on that one, Mike. Absolutely. The the two agencies have unfortunately rarely worked well together, and what we're really uh moving forward in a new direction with our harmonization efforts. We have a memorandum of understanding that the two agencies are working on, hammering out, and getting in place that will allow us to share information, coordinate on specific issues, and make sure that we
[00:17:07] don't have this turf battle between the two agencies going forward. And part of that starts, of course, at the top. Chairman Atkinson and I work very closely together to make sure that we're coordinated on policy, but also at the staff level. So, when exchanges and brokers and market participants are coming in to register or to offer new product, we need to make sure that there's not this fighting over where
[00:17:30] they're supposed to be registered and what they're able to offer. Some of these products cross jurisdictions. A great example are some of the prediction markets products. Some of them involve uh public companies and securities and others are related to things like sports and politics. And that crosses jurisdictions, so we need to make sure that we have clear lines and that our market participants aren't subject to