[00:15:26] we're not allowing things to then blow up in our face. Here's a question that may sound dumb, so I apologize if it does, and this is to both of you. I think a lot of people don't understand, or at least I don't, where the SEC and the CFTC cooperate most effectively, but then as with all things, where does coordination maybe break down? Could you just explain that to people so that we understand and level set about what the
[00:15:53] expectations of each organization are and how you guys actually work together day-to-day when you have to? >> Having been around the two agencies now for 30-some years, um I can really say that unfortunately the two um and not necessarily at the commissioner level, but uh certainly at the staff, there was a lot of sniping, uh you know, back and forth. So, I compare it to two uh fortresses with a no man's land in
[00:16:17] between. And so, the no man's land is littered with a bodies of would-be products that people were unsure like, is it CFTC? Is it SEC? crossfire between the two just killed the products. They never went to market. Single stock futures, portfolio margining, which has so much potential benefits for um making the financial markets safer and more efficient. But, Mike and I are setting out to change that, and I'll let
[00:16:44] you uh go forth on that one, Mike. Absolutely. The the two agencies have unfortunately rarely worked well together, and what we're really uh moving forward in a new direction with our harmonization efforts. We have a memorandum of understanding that the two agencies are working on, hammering out, and getting in place that will allow us to share information, coordinate on specific issues, and make sure that we
[00:17:07] don't have this turf battle between the two agencies going forward. And part of that starts, of course, at the top. Chairman Atkinson and I work very closely together to make sure that we're coordinated on policy, but also at the staff level. So, when exchanges and brokers and market participants are coming in to register or to offer new product, we need to make sure that there's not this fighting over where
[00:17:30] they're supposed to be registered and what they're able to offer. Some of these products cross jurisdictions. A great example are some of the prediction markets products. Some of them involve uh public companies and securities and others are related to things like sports and politics. And that crosses jurisdictions, so we need to make sure that we have clear lines and that our market participants aren't subject to
[00:17:52] duplicative regulatory frameworks. And Chairman Atkins and I have talked about substituted compliance regimes where you have a primary regulator at the SEC or the CFTC, but we work together to figure out the cross-jurisdictional products so that you don't get stuck with duplicative regulation registration. Another area is crypto where we've got blockchain networks, we've got smart contracts, we've got protocols that have
[00:18:16] both securities and non-securities trading on them cross-jurisdictionally. And and we need to make sure that the standards are consistent because it won't work if we've got one blockchain for securities and another blockchain for commodities and nothing in between. So, I think this is really critical that the agencies bury the hatchet and move forward with a harmonized and coordinated approach. As we look towards
[00:18:37] the future, I mean to build on you know, there two separate regimes and and there are differences in approaches based on statutes that govern us. But we also and speaking for the SEC, we have a lot of flexibility with respect to exemptive authority and whatnot. So, my dream is one day that and I hope we can achieve that here in the next couple years to have like a super app approach where, you know, there is okay, blurred lines
[00:19:06] between the two, but we've coordinated our approach, we've coordinated uh, you know, to reduce the friction between dually registered companies and and to make everything work very efficiently. I want to ask a question around prediction markets. Let me try to set this up the way that I think about it. So, I think that there is this inexorable tension that's always existed and will always exist between the investor protection that has to
[00:19:33] happen when you have publicly traded securities or commodities or derivatives. But then the capital formation process that on behalf of the company or whatever that wants to get access to this. And there's always been this kind of back and forth tension. The best example of this is Reg FD where we said at some point, "Hey, let's hold the trains. If one person knows something, every person needs to know that thing."
[00:19:54] Makes a ton of sense. When you get into prediction markets, I think that this is going to stress test this assumption to the nth degree. And the reason is that there are just certain things that some people know. And we see it now. Every other day there's an article about some prediction market that turned out to be right. Or a bunch of other markets that were almost manipulated. It seems like it's ripe for this question to come up all over again.
[00:20:18] The corollary to this is Brian Armstrong tweeted something which I thought was quite an interesting comment about prediction markets which is that certain prediction markets only thrive on insider information. Which is to say that they know a secret. And so that's how the market can exist and actually conform to an outcome. And that creates these two sides. I just want to get your thoughts on prediction markets. What role do they play? How do
[00:20:47] we balance the capital formation that the market creates versus the investor protection, the insider trading that may be happening? It's a very complicated space. I'm not going to hold you to any of it. I just want to think out loud. >> markets aren't new. We've had them since the '90s. They started off with the electronic market in Iowa where folks were predicting the political outcomes on elections. We've been surveilling and
[00:21:09] monitoring and and policing fraud and manipulation in these markets for a very long time. And to the extent that there are contracts in certain markets, for example, what color Gatorade's going to be, you know, dunked on the the coach at the Super Bowl. Some of this stuff is potentially at risk of being manipulated and there's a risk that somebody on the team is able to go trade because they have special information about the
[00:21:34] Gatorade they put in the cooler. We have standards to make sure that those contracts should not be listed and and it's on the exchanges as the first line of defense as self-regulatory organizations to evaluate each contract and certify to us, the regulator, the CFTC, that those contracts are not readily susceptible to insider trading, manipulation, fraud, and the like. And we saw actually recently Kalshi, one of
[00:21:59] the the prediction markets, brought two enforcement actions against participants. One involved a contract related to Mr. Beast's YouTube channel where one of his employees insider traded based on information of when a video was going to launch or what was in the video. And the same sort of authority that you have at the SEC around a duty of of you know, care to your employer is a prevalent in our markets. So, to the extent somebody
[00:22:27] insider trades on information, we police that. And and it's really important for folks to know, it's it's not just securities insider trading, we've got it in the commodities world as well. And the exchanges are policing that, we're policing that. And to the extent folks are listing contracts that are susceptible to manipulation, there's consequences to that. We can reject those contracts or we can police fraud
[00:22:47] on the back end, but there is a a cop on the beat there and I do want to caution that insider trading is is is not something that's necessarily allowed in our markets, but we do believe that markets are truth machines, that they do create a really powerful source of information. We've seen the hoaxes, the fake news, and the manipulation of the polls. The prior administration tried to ban these markets ahead of the 2024 election, and
[00:23:14] they really increased turnout. It showed that they were correct when a bunch of the fake polls were put out right ahead of the election. So, we really have to foster these markets here in the United States and make sure that they don't uh flourish in Russia or somewhere else where they really will turn out to be uh a source of disinformation. So, we do believe it's valuable to have that uh trading and information flowing through
[00:23:35] the markets, but insider trading is is still uh still legal here in the US. >> us through some examples there, Mike? Like, it's very obvious and clear to people who work at Microsoft if some new version of software's coming out or the sales are dynamic and the numbers haven't been released. Obviously, you can't trade on that. You're going to jail. It's insider trading. If I am a reseller of Microsoft software
[00:23:56] or a friend of mine works at Microsoft and says, "Hey, things are going great with this new product we have." And I make a thoughtful, you know, uh wager on a prediction market. Or if I intentionally do something like I'm a streaker at the Super Bowl was one that came up recently. And I actually am the streaker. Not that I'm planning any of this. To make the bet. Where are all those rules? Where do they live? And who's responsible? Is it the
[00:24:22] prediction market? Is it you? Or is it TBD? Because it does seem that there's a bit of gray area as Chamath was sort of alluding to here. And And does this need to be codified? And does it need to be a bit more education for the public on it? A lot of the gray started off with the prior administration really trying to ban these markets and not facilitating proper rule making and guidance in the markets. Over the past year, you know,
[00:24:45] I've been in the the office for a couple months now. For the past year under the acting chairman's leadership, a lot of these products have really exploded in popularity. And so, now is the time to put out guidance and make sure that we're not regulating by enforcement as the prior administration did, but we are setting standards. We are making clear what our statute says, and that is that these contracts cannot be listed if
[00:25:07] they're susceptible to manipulation. And we take that very seriously. >> standard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, the exchanges are responsible for policing that and reviewing the contracts, and they certify to us the regulator that they are free of the the risk of manipulation. And if there's manipulation in the markets, we're policing that. The exchanges are policing that. So, there are controls in place, but a lot of these questions as
[00:25:30] to what's susceptible to manipulation are are up for debate. And I think there's some wrestlers possibility. You know, your example of the streaker, if somebody can just jump out of the stands and go streak across and collect on the contract, I mean, that's something that does seem potentially at risk of manipulation and and fraud. And so, we need to be careful about that. The exchanges need to be on the lookout for
[00:25:52] that. And if they're not, you know, there's consequences with us as the regulator. The markets should take the first step and make sure they're thoughtful about which ones to fire up to begin with, and we have seen that. They are not saying, "Hey, this dictator is uh executed." They're saying, "This dictator is deposed or is no longer in power." That seems to be a very uh tricky one as well. Yes, Mike. Well, there's got to be integrity in the
[00:26:17] contracts. Our rules require that the contracts have, for example, certain fungibility and standardization. They're derivatives contracts. This isn't simply just betting at a, you know, with a bookie and a casino. And so, each contract that's that's correct. You would look for is it tied to an election or is it tied to a very specific event? Uh is there a risk that that event can be manipulated or insider traded? And
[00:26:40] the And the exchanges are evaluating that. And there are instances where something is insider traded, and it wasn't something they could have foreseen. It wasn't readily susceptible to manipulation. And so, they police that. They bring uh actions against the traders and KOSHE did just this with some of its fines in in the past few weeks. Let me ask a question about quarterly reporting because maybe where there was the most manipulation in the
[00:27:02] past was around that, right? People would try to front-run these quarterly reports. They would try to make guesses. Invariably you would find some people that had crossed the bright red line. But recently Paul President Trump said maybe we should move to 6-month reporting or 1-year reporting. And it was really well received by a lot of people. Do you think that quarterly reporting has sort of also killed the IPO? Meaning
[00:27:28] when we think about making an IPO great again just the complexity and the burden of such short-termism, has it made the markets better or worse do you think? Yeah, well that's a great point. And I just wanted to add one uh kind of a little uh note to the previous discussion there that, you know, if if something is a tokenized security, you know, the federal securities laws apply. And so that goes for insider trading,
[00:27:54] you know, with respect to uh trading securities uh wherever they may be, you know, on the online or or on an exchange floor or wherever. So anyway, but but then to your point about uh the cadence of uh reporting, I think that's an important one and we are going to come out with a a proposed rule and and seek comment on it. And I frankly am a bit agnostic myself personally because if you look at things uh we haven't always
[00:28:22] had quarterly reporting. In fact, when the SEC was uh you know, formed back in 1934, it basically codified the New York Stock Exchange rule book, which at the time called for annual reports. So annual reports prevailed until 1955 and the SEC went to semi-annual reporting. And by the way, the UK did the same thing around the same time. And then in 1970 only did things go to quarterly. And then the UK parted way they did
[00:28:52] quarterly as well, but then in 2014 or so, they they changed to go back to semi-annual, but if you wanted to still report quarterly, you know, God bless you and go ahead and and do that. So, we're still at quarterly and and so the president did send out a you know, electronic message about that. And so, but our staff was looking at we're looking at what we call filer status. There are all sorts of different categories of filers with different
[00:29:21] rules like large accelerated filers, accelerated filers, emerging growth companies, and so forth. So, we're looking to kind of simplify all of this. And part of that also is perhaps smaller companies could benefit from, you know, reduced you know, cadence of reporting, but maybe not. They they have trouble finding analysts to follow their stock. That's another thing that might be an inhibition to go public for small
[00:29:49] companies. And maybe analysts want quarterly, maybe they don't, maybe they would prefer semi-annual, too. So, I think this is a great debate to have right now. And you did have Barry Diller even taking the other side of it where he's like, "I'm just tired of giving predictions. I'm tired of playing this gamesmanship quarterly. I'm just going to release our accounting numbers every month and you all can have fun with the
[00:30:09] numbers as much as you like." >> But that's amazing because you can do that now, right? You can have software that's so vibrant that it can just Jason release a stream and there'll be people that have, you know, developed agents and developed these AIs that will just process all of that and they will then publish out a dashboard and the whole thing will be almost real time. It could be real time. Yeah, and there are services that do
[00:30:33] semi-interesting things already that you can buy that maybe people with budgets for data streams can do. Let's talk a little bit, Chairman Atkins, about the history of accreditation in this country. I think when you brought up Microsoft in the early part of your career watching these companies go public. I did a little research while we were here and you were speaking. Microsoft and Apple went out with a thousand and 1200 employees each
[00:30:58] and about 400 million dollars in revenue in today's dollars. 120 million in those dollars. So obviously there was this incredible opportunity for you to create and place a bet on these companies as an individual with a stock trading account and maybe move from you know one tier in societal wealth to another and that's a big part of the American dream. But as we talk about private markets, the SEC has ancient rules now going on
[00:31:24] close to a century old to protect investors called accreditation laws. They apply to 95% of the of the country apparently and about 5% of us get to trade in some way in private companies where the value is created. The SEC has been challenged and charged with changing these evolving these and it never seems to happen. My perception is which SEC chair is ever going to take this on because hey, it's just easier to keep the status quo. But