[00:00:00] No text [Music] I honestly believe that the AI revolution is underhyped. Now, why is this all important? Eric Schmidt is here. He's the former Google executive chairman and CEO. These agents are going to be really powerful, and they'll start to work together. We're soon going to be able to have computers running on their own, deciding what they want to do. Now we have the arrival of a new nonhuman intelligence which is likely to have
[00:00:27] better reasoning skills than humans can have. So if you were emperor of the world for 1 hour, the most important thing I do is make sure that the west wins. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Eric Schmidt. [Music] Hi. [Music] Hi. Looking good. Good to see you. Good to see you. Good to see you. You're looking, Eric. You're looking. Very nice. Oh my god. David, good to see you. It's like David Sax is here as well. It's like a It's like a reunion of all
[00:01:03] of our former companies. David, why did you quit after all? My old my old boss. It was What was it like working with Young Freedberg? Take us back. Can I Can I tell a story? We have to come down to Orange County and they're like, "Hey, we're going to take the plane and it was Eric's plane." We get on the plane and then he goes up and flies the plane. I'm in the back of the plane by myself. Was it King Air? I'm like, "The CEO of Google's flying me
[00:01:28] down to Orange County." It was incredible. That was my first time actually hanging out with Eric. It was It was my Gulfream. That's right. Um, he was way too smart. Way too smart. Way too smart. Was he focused? Did he contribute? Did he move the needle? But he was very smart. Okay, that's kind of our consensus off the pot as well. Look, you guys know this guy well. He's really that smart. So, he taught me more stuff than most of any of the employees
[00:01:54] at Google and then you left. Well, tell us what you've been doing. So, um No, no, wait. Before that, I got to ask No text you this question. There was a recently deleted video from Stanford. Oh, no. You had a moment of clarity where you said, "Hey, you know, like at Google, people are like too much work life balance. They need to commit. They need to work harder. We had Sergey at the last event. He's going back to work. So
[00:02:18] Sergey got the message. Predicting Sergey's behavior is something I can fail at. I tried for 20 years. Um I am not in favor of um essentially working at home. I And the reason I mean many of you guys all work at home to some degree, but your careers are already established. But think about a 20-some who has to learn how the world works and you know they they come out of Berkeley or Dartmouth and they're very
[00:02:47] well educated. When I think about how much I learned when I was at Sun just listening to these elder people who were 5 or 10 years older than I was argue with each other in person. I don't how do you recreate that in this new thing? And and I'm in favor of work life balance and that's why people work for the government. Um, sorry. Um, strays. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Um, if you're going to be in tech and you're going to win,
[00:03:17] you're going to have to make some tradeoffs. And you're remember, we're up against the Chinese. The Chinese work life balance consists of 996, which is 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. 6 days a week. By the way, the Chinese have clarified that this is illegal. However, they all do it. That's who you're competing against. I brought I brought everybody back to office. It's so much better. So, it let's just pick up on that theme.
[00:03:41] So, you don't need to defend the government. No, no. Believe me, I don't I don't see the need to. I'm an unpaid part-time adviser to the government. So, uh but uh but we are in this high-tech competition No text with China. They obviously care about AI, too. They're trying to race ahead. How do you uh I I understand that you recently ma made a trip there. How do you um handicap this this this competition? Well, you and I just talked
[00:04:04] about this as part of your as your incredibly important work in the White House. Um, I had thought that China and the United States were competing at the peer level in AI and that the good work that you have done and your predecessors did to restrict chips were slowing them down. They're really doing something more different than I thought. They're not pursuing crazy AGI strategies partly because the hardware limitations that
[00:04:31] you've put in place, but partly because the depth of their capital markets don't exist. They can't raise based on a wing and a prayer $100 million or maybe an equivalent to to build the data centers. They just can't do it. And so the result is they're very focused on taking AI and applying it to everything. And so the concern I have is that while we're pursuing AGI, which is incredibly interesting and we should talk about and
[00:04:56] all of us will be affected by this, we better also be competing with the Chinese in day-to-day stuff. Consumer apps, this is something you understand very well, Chimath, uh, consumer apps, uh, robots and so forth and so on. I saw all the the Shanghai robotics companies and these guys are attempting to do in robots what they've successfully done with electric vehicles, right? and they're re they their work ethic is
[00:05:20] incredible. They're wellunded. It's not the crazy valuations that we have in America. They can't raise the capital, but they can win across that. The other thing the Chinese are doing, and I want to emphasize this is a major geopolitical issue, is that my own background is open source. In the audience, you all know open source means open code. Open weight open weights means open training data. China is competing with open weights and
[00:05:46] open training data. And the US is largely and majority focused on closed weights, closed data. That means that the majority of the world, think of it as the belt and road initiative, are going to use Chinese models and not American models. Now, I happen to think the West and democracies are correct. And I'd much rather have the proliferation of large language models and that learning be done based on Western values. Eric, we had a a major
[00:06:10] open- source initiative um with Meta, you know, incredible balance sheet, tremendous technical firepower, but they seem to have misexecuted and now are taking a step back and reformulating something to your point that looks a little bit more closed source. It's not clear. You know, Alex Wang's a good friend. Uh he's come in, he's taken over. He's obviously incredibly uh incredibly capable. I would not hold keep um I I would not say that they're
[00:06:35] going fully closed. And I think also they got screwed up because the deepseek people uh R1 did such a good job, right? If you look at the reasoning model in deepseek and in particular their ability to do reinforcement learning forward and back, forward and back and forward and back. This is a major achievement and it appears that they're doing it with less precision than numeric precision than the American models. As a bit of
[00:07:01] technical things, uh there's something called FP64, FP32, FP16. The American models are typically using 16 bit precision for their training. The Chinese are pushing eight and now even four. Is there is there something that um the American you know bigger companies need to be doing in open source so that we can actually combat this? Well, a number of the large companies have said that they want to be leaders in open source as well. Um Sam Alman
[00:07:28] indicated that the smallest version of the 03 model would be released I believe open weights and they have done so and he told me anyway that this model is much smaller than 10 the 26. It's much easier to train and it will fit or or can fit on your phone. So one path is to say that we'll have these supercomputers doing AGI which will always be incredibly expensive and so forth. But we also have to watch to make sure that
[00:07:56] the proliferation of these models for handheld devices is under American control whether it's OpenAI or Meta or Gemini or what have you. recently you uh No text took over uh relativity space and I think for for the people that don't know this is a business that effectively whose ambition is to compete with SpaceX. I think you were the first investor or the earliest investor in it. I was I'm sorry. It's okay. You lost some money in the first what
[00:08:23] happened? Did you get crammed down? No, no, no. I mean all of us did. All of I mean look I mean I've been very happily uh you know an investor in SpaceX and Swarm and Starlink. relativity was and by the way swarm is a big deal created swarm was a so thank you yeah swarm has been a really great success for for them and I think for the world um but what I was going to ask you is walk us through the evolution of the
[00:08:47] space market why you decided of all the companies you have the capital base to kind of put your money anywhere why did you pick that why did you pick that business why now rockets are really cool and they're really hard I had I'm as you know I'm a pilot and I know lots about jets And I had assumed that rockets were as mature as jet engines. They're not. It is an art and a science. These things are very hard to do. The amounts of power, I
[00:09:14] mean, in our case, the rocket is 4 million pounds of thrust. Um, you have to hold the thing down to test it. And you can't even hold it with metal things. You have to have other things to hold it down as well. There's so much force otherwise it will take off. Um, another interesting thing about rockets is that a rough number is that 2% of the weight of the rocket is the payload, 18% is roughly the rocket, and 80% is the
[00:09:36] propellant. And my reaction as a new person is, you're telling me you can't do any better. And the physicists say after 60 years of physics, that's the best we can do to get out of the gravitation of of the Earth. And so, I think rockets are interesting and they're challenging. There's always an opportunity for competition. um in relativity space's area, it's essentially a LEO com a LEO competitor. So low Earth orbit satellites, that sort
[00:10:02] of thing. The order book is full. We just have to launch the rocket and and this entry into space happened and I'm not sure how well known this is. So you can go as far as you want to go into this, but you've done a lot as well in next generation warfare as well. Do you want us just to talk about that and how you ended up there and what role that plays and just give us a landscape? Maybe David asked about the China
[00:10:23] question, but it's they're all kind of almost interrelated. Well, at first place, I'm a software person, not a hardware person. I I explain to people that hardware people go to different schools than software people. Um, and they think slightly differently. So, I'm always at a limitation in these new industries. Um, I had worked for the Secretary of Defense and have a top secret clearance and all that. I was given a medal, etc.,
[00:10:44] uh, for trying to help the Pentagon reorganize itself. And when the Ukraine war started, I was watching and I thought, well, here's an opportunity to see a country that has no navy u and no uh and no air force how they do this with automation. And indeed, it has been a spectacular success as a matter of innovation. Um and outnumbered 3 to one with huge differences in um kinetic strength, weapons, mobilization, and so
[00:11:13] forth and so on. Ukraine has held on really quite well. Um and what's happening now is you're seeing essentially the birth of a completely new military national security structure. Um one way to think about it is that we all u so first place and I've I've seen it live and I will tell you that real war is much worse than the worst movies you have ever seen about war. And that's all I'll say. It's really horrific and it's to be avoided
[00:11:38] at all cost. Um and then right for obvious reasons and the the and I love all these people say well we'll well you know the wararmongering talk be careful what you wish for because the other side gets a vote when I started working and and trying to understand what Ukraine was doing uh Russia was pushed back and they've come back with a very very strong second and third round so the enemy gets a vote in this situation uh but to but to go on um
[00:12:09] The rough way in which war will evolve is first things will have to be very very mobile and very much not in fixed places. This takes out most of the military infrastructure that exists in the world. Um things like tanks um of which we're now building a whole bunch more even stronger tanks here in America don't make any sense in a world where a 2 kg payload from a a well-armed drone can destroy the tank. It's called the
[00:12:37] kill ratio. And that drone costs retail $5,000, $4,000. The tank, the American tank costs $30 million. You can see the you can send an awful lot of those drones to destroy those tanks. Um, the likely evolution goes something like this. So, first, people learn that drones are like rifles and like artillery. So, it's more efficient to use drones now than to use mortars, grenades, artillery. That's clear. If you just look at the economics,
[00:13:06] economics in terms of cost or effectiveness as it's called. Um the next thing that happens is that both sides develop drone capabilities which what you're seeing now and each then becomes a war of drone against drone. So you have drone against anti- drone. And so then the shift moves to how do you detect the enemy drone and how do you destroy it before it destroys you. So the doctrine ultimately is the drones
[00:13:31] are forward and the people are behind. And I've seen operations in for example sitting in Kev where the Ukrainians are commanding things over Starlink I might add um in the distance in the distant war and they're very very effective. So we've solved the latency problems, we've solved the timing problems and so forth in that area. The ultimate state is very interesting and I don't think anyone has foreseen this. If you go back to our
[00:13:57] conversation about RL and planning, which is what you're seeing with AI, let's say that that we're on one side and we have a million drones and there's another side over here that has another million drones. Each side will use reinforcement learning AI strategies to do battle plans, but neither side can figure out what the other side's battle plan is. And therefore, the deterrence against attacking each other will be
[00:14:21] very high. Today, the way military planners operate is that they count weapons. They say, "Well, you have this many and I have this many and you can do this kind of a maneuver and so forth." But in an AI world where you're doing reinforcement learning, you can't count what the other side is planning. You can't see it. You don't know it. And I believe that that will deter what I view as one of the most horrendous things
[00:14:42] ever done by humans, which is war. Because unless there's a perfect balance between either side, there will be some mutual destruction of the drone supply like there would be with any artillery stock in traditional warfare and whoever's left ends up winning. Like they're just Well, it's very important to understand that there's no winners in war. Um, by the time you have a drone battle of the scale I'm describing, the entire
[00:15:05] infrastructure of your side will be destroyed. The entire infrastructure of the other side will be destroyed. These are lose-lose scenarios. Isn't there like an an equilibrium though that that can also create where there because of that mutually assured destruction there's a det or is that well I'm arguing that it's it's not a deterrence right that as deterrence can be understood as I want to hit you which I don't but I
[00:15:28] want to hit you so much but that if I do that the penalty is the penalty is greater than the value of me hitting you right and that's how det that's how but that seems like an that seems like a great um advantage antage and upside of this move to sort of drones and automation that we don't have today. Well, I there are many advantages to moving to drones and automation. One, they're much much cheaper, right? They're much much cheaper.
[00:15:53] Yeah. And two, and two, you can stockpile algorithms. You can essentially learn and learn and learn. And remember, you can also build training data, right, that's synthetic, so you can be even better than the others. The final question I've been asked by our military is what's the role of the of a traditional land army? And I wish I could say that all of these human behaviors can occur without humans being at at risk. I don't think so. I think
[00:16:23] that the way um robot war essentially drone war will occur is there will be these destructive waves, but eventually humans are going to have to cross a line. they're going to have to after we've depleted them. So, you're investing in this drone technology and then do you think Optimus and humanoid robots are the next, you know, volley in this um new warfare. It's going to be a long time before humanoid robots we which is what
[00:16:51] we see in the movies all day, right? Be a very long time before we see that. Uh what you're going to see is very very fast mobility solutions, right? airly airbased solutions and also hypersonics hypersonics also things underwater there's a lot of that going on it's a different domain um if you look at the um the muro and some other boats that the Ukrainians used they have essentially used USVs to destroy the uh