[00:14:42] ever done by humans, which is war. Because unless there's a perfect balance between either side, there will be some mutual destruction of the drone supply like there would be with any artillery stock in traditional warfare and whoever's left ends up winning. Like they're just Well, it's very important to understand that there's no winners in war. Um, by the time you have a drone battle of the scale I'm describing, the entire
[00:15:05] infrastructure of your side will be destroyed. The entire infrastructure of the other side will be destroyed. These are lose-lose scenarios. Isn't there like an an equilibrium though that that can also create where there because of that mutually assured destruction there's a det or is that well I'm arguing that it's it's not a deterrence right that as deterrence can be understood as I want to hit you which I don't but I
[00:15:28] want to hit you so much but that if I do that the penalty is the penalty is greater than the value of me hitting you right and that's how det that's how but that seems like an that seems like a great um advantage antage and upside of this move to sort of drones and automation that we don't have today. Well, I there are many advantages to moving to drones and automation. One, they're much much cheaper, right? They're much much cheaper.
[00:15:53] Yeah. And two, and two, you can stockpile algorithms. You can essentially learn and learn and learn. And remember, you can also build training data, right, that's synthetic, so you can be even better than the others. The final question I've been asked by our military is what's the role of the of a traditional land army? And I wish I could say that all of these human behaviors can occur without humans being at at risk. I don't think so. I think
[00:16:23] that the way um robot war essentially drone war will occur is there will be these destructive waves, but eventually humans are going to have to cross a line. they're going to have to after we've depleted them. So, you're investing in this drone technology and then do you think Optimus and humanoid robots are the next, you know, volley in this um new warfare. It's going to be a long time before humanoid robots we which is what
[00:16:51] we see in the movies all day, right? Be a very long time before we see that. Uh what you're going to see is very very fast mobility solutions, right? airly airbased solutions and also hypersonics hypersonics also things underwater there's a lot of that going on it's a different domain um if you look at the um the muro and some other boats that the Ukrainians used they have essentially used USVs to destroy the uh
[00:17:18] Russian fleet in the Black Sea this was crucial for them because they needed to be able to export the grain from Odessa around and it's like 6% or 10% of their economy It's a very big deal and they No text did that with drones. Eric, it seems like there's this overarching worldview that you have, meaning you have this view on AI. There's all the stuff you're doing now in drones, in warfare, in rocketry. It all converges quite honestly because in
[00:17:46] the in the next five or 10 years, these things will all come to pass. What is the like how do you view the world? Like what is the role of America? What is your role as a as a capitalist, as a technologist, as like a statesman? I want America to win, right? Uh I am here because the American dream, the people who invested in me, in my case, Berkeley and so forth, people took a chance on me. I want the next generation to have that. I also want you
[00:18:20] all to remember I was just in in uh as part of the World War II surrender ceremony in in Honolulu and they talked about fighting tyranny, right? We forget that our ancestors or greatgrandparents or whatever fought the Great War to keep liberalism and democracy alive. I want us to do that. How do we do that as Americans? We use our strengths. What are our strengths? We're chaotic, confusing, loud, you know, but we're
[00:18:49] clever. Uh we allocate capital smartly. We have very deep financial markets. We have this enormous industrial base of universities and entrepreneurs which are represented here. We should celebrate this. We should stoke it. We should make it go faster and faster. I spent lots of time in Europe because of the Ukraine stuff. They are so envious of us. When you're in Asia, they are envious of us. Don't screw it up, guys. That's what I
[00:19:14] want to work on. Can Can I Can I just ask you outside of this external conflict? We had um a conversation with Alex Karp today and we actually had Tucker Carlson here yesterday and some of the dialogue was around the I I don't know if the right term is the erosion of the west that there may be social issues that are brewing in the west that may be hurting us from the inside. How much do you observe or spend time on these issues?
[00:19:41] And the metric that often is cited now is declining birth rates in the west. And that our population, and we're gonna talk with Elon in a few minutes about this. Um, oh, sorry. Oh, we just ruined my bad. My surprise. Oops. Sorry. Sorry. There's your surprise guest. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Um, slip. Uh, but um, Elon is a good friend and he's addressing this issue of population directly himself. problem solve for it. Good for you.
[00:20:13] Is it is it is it a reflection of something going on? There's a rise of Mandani getting elected in New York. Uh some of the historic values of the West seem to be, you know, kind of under a state of transformation. Right now, one metric of the success of a society is its ability to reproduce. And so, I think this is a legitimate concern of the West. It's much worse in Asia. The um the Chinese number is about 1.0 0 for
[00:20:39] two parents. In Korea, it's now down to 78 for two. So, it's really important to recognize that we as humans are collectively choosing to depopulate. And the numbers are staggering, right? And imagine a situation where instead of having growth, you have shrinkage. And furthermore, they're getting older. And so, as a business, all of a sudden, your revenue is declining. And there's nothing you can do because you can't
[00:21:07] innovate with fewer and fewer customers. So if you just put it in a business context, ignoring the moral issues which are all very real, it's just bad, right? So we have to solve that problem. I happen to be in favor broadly of immigration because I think immigration helps us solve that problem. But as a global mechanism, we have to address that. Um, in any case, from my perspective, you're going to have these
[00:21:29] issues, but America is organized around the concept of American exceptionalism. And as long as we understand that the way we make progress is we invest in the right people, in the right businesses, we have a a strong capital market, we invest in the infrastructure that they need, um, we'll be fine. That is my No text actual opinion. Can can we go back to um AI for a second? So um Eric, I think you can help us get
[00:21:57] to a let's call it a a bipartisan understanding of these issues. I think you you you think really clearly about this. Um you know, in in the wake of Chad GBT launching at the end of 2022, I think the discourse was really dominated in 2023 and 24 by this idea of AGI and that AGI was imminent. And I think it created almost like a panicky atmosphere in Washington among policy makers and you saw things like we got to restrict
[00:22:25] open source because you know then China will get it and um and this is before Deepseek launched and then we saw that actually they're ahead of us on open source but it feels like there's been um a pullback a little bit from the AGI narrative which I think I think it's actually a good thing. I think it's more conducive to calm rational policym. What's your perception of AGI right now? Where where are we on that whole train?
[00:22:48] So So um so first place, the speech that the president delivered about a month ago about AI strategy, which I think you probably wouldn't say it, but you kind of wrote it for him, was exactly right. Right. So thank you. David collaborated with an amazing leader who we all respect and admire so much, Eric. Yes. Uh, so nevertheless, saying I wrote it was was way too strong. I mean, actually, but anyway, if you didn't if you didn't write it,
[00:23:18] then it must have been your twin. But in any case, um, the you you got you got the emphasis right, which was that investment in research, investment in the kind of stuff that we do is really, really important. I don't agree with you on this on this AGI thing because there's this group which I call the San Francisco um narrative because they all live in San Francisco and their narrative goes something like this. Um today we're
[00:23:46] doing agents uh the agentic revolution will change businesses which I agree with. Um that what happens is the systems will become recursively self-intelligent with recursive self-improvement as it's called. If you have a scale-free problem and a scale-free problem for example is programming or math where you can just keep doing it you get these enormous fast gains if you buy enough hardware do enough software so forth and so on that
[00:24:13] is still underway. The collective of that says that in the next three-ish years they believe that we will get forms of super intelligence and the way they define it is basically a savant a chemist so a physics soant a mathematician soant I don't agree with the three years but I do agree that it'll be maybe six or seven years but if it's a savant in you know a particular area is that general intelligence it's not general intelligence yet
[00:24:45] general internal intelligence is when it can set its own objective function. Right? And there's no evidence of that. There's no evidence right now of the ability to set your own objective function. Um the the the thinking and I'm writing a paper on this so I've been studying it is that the the the technical problem is non-stationerity of mathematical proofs. And what you're doing is you're trying to solve against
[00:25:09] objective function but the objective function keeps changing which is how humans operate. your goal changes every day. Whereas computers have trouble with that. As a math problem, we don't have an algorithm yet for LLMs that can do that. People are working on it. Um and the the test will be can you basically um using the information available in 1902, can you derive the same thing that Einstein did with special relativity
[00:25:36] followed by general relativity? We cannot do that today. Um and most people believe that the way this will be solved is through analogy. So the theory of great geniuses is that they understand one area of extremely well and they're so brilliant the lady or man can then take their ideas and apply it to a completely different domain. If we can solve that problem then I think it's over. Then we get to AGI and then it's a
[00:26:06] whole different world. I think one of the reasons why it's hard to replace a human and you know JK and I debate this is that humans are end to end. You know we can do the whole job. You have sort of a complete understanding. You can pivot very easily. AI at least as we know it today is not end to end. It has to be prompted. You get an answer. That answer has to be validated. Then you have to ask a new question because it never
[00:26:31] gives you exactly what you want. You have to apply more context. You have to go through an iterative loop. Finally, you get to an answer that has business value. The way biology puts it is that AI is not end to end. It's middle to middle. Humans are end to end. And so, as a result of that, instead of AI replacing all of us, AI will be very synergistic with humans because we can define the objective function. We do the
[00:26:54] prompting and we work with it to iterate and it does a lot of the work in the middle. Um, that seems to me like a very optimistic, less duoristic take on it. What you just said is exactly what's going to happen for the next few years that each of us will have assistance which on our command and our prompting will be incredibly helpful to whatever problem we have you know personal uh you have people who are using these things
[00:27:20] for relationship advice for you know talking to their kids I mean it's all crazy stuff um but the fact of the matter is that's it the to me the real question is when does it cross over to having its own valition its own ability to seek information and solve new problems s that's a different animal. But have we seen any evidence of recursive self-improvement yet? Um, not yet. I'm I'm I've funded a number of startups which claim to be
[00:27:44] close to it, but of course these are startups and you never know, which tells me it's 5 10 years cutting numbers. What do you think Google's doing on this front? Um, well, I'm not at Google anymore. Um, every issue of Gemini is top of the leaderboard. So 2.5 just overcame everybody and I'm sure there's another one coming. Um Demis is working really hard on this question about um scientific discovery. So that's a p that
[00:28:12] is a path to getting to AGI. Eric, um we appreciate the work you're doing. Uh we appreciate you being here with us. We appreciate what you've done, the impact you've had on Silicon Valley, uh as society. Yeah. No, but it's it's really been I am so happy to be part of this. You created this incredible community and there's all of these smart people that spend all their time listening to you. Very concerning. Wow. Eric
[00:28:46] [Music] very Thanks, Eric. Appreciate you. Cheers. All right.