[00:43:04] $29 trillion GDP, right? Which people don't understand and which I'll explain a little bit. And we have 36 trillion in debt. Yeah. What number didn't I say to a business person? What's our balance sheet worth? Right. Right. I say 500 trillion. Right. The president says a quadrillion. But at 500 trillion or quadrillion, 36 trillion, we're rich. We don't have to take one penny from someone who deserves social security.
[00:43:31] Not one penny for someone who deserves Medicaid, Medicare. What we have to do is stop sending money to someone who's not hurt, who's on disability for 50 years. It's ridiculous. And they have another job. And do we have to monetize our assets? We We need to be smart. That's all we need to be. And I'm going to tell you things that are just smart. They're not, oh my god, there's the most brilliant thing ever. This is just smart. There
[00:43:58] are so many smart things we can do. Like, you know, we'll talk about the post office, right? Think about this. The post office has 625,000 people who work there and they go to your house every day. You know what the census does? The census hires 625,000 people, trains them, teaches them, has interviews 2 million people, trains and teaches them, hires cars. How about this? You're genius. That's pretty smart, Howard. Right. Okay. Like
[00:44:21] obvious, right? But here's what it is. I'll tell you what I'm going to I'm really good at pattern recognition. Okay. Here's one like tell me 625 of one and I can point out 625 of another. This is the genius I bring to the government. Seriously, this is this is core fun. By the way, you're responsible for all the core data collection as well, aren't you? Isn't commerce responsible for generating a lot of the GDP for economic
[00:44:41] Oh, that's I get to talk about GDP and how I'm going to how I'm going to clean up the nonsense is in GDP. You know, I can explain that if you make a tank and someone buys a tank, that is GDP. Yeah. But a thousand people thinking about buying a tank, right, who take your tax money and I give it to them and they go, I wonder should we buy a tank or not? That's not GDP, right? You're saying government spending should not be
[00:45:00] counted in GDP. No, government spending to buy a tank, right, should be, right? Government spending that's nonproductive. Non-productive. This is so important. I don't think I don't think a lot of people realize this. How how much of GDP is nonproductive government spending? How about we do one thing? Yeah. G DP D means domestic. P is prod domestic production. It's not consumption. Right. If I go out and buy a Toyota, right? Right. That's not GDP.
[00:45:34] Right. If I buy a Chevy that's made in America, that's a D. Right. So people think it's like a consumption model, right? That's not it. And you could check another one is is there's gross domestic income, right? That's also good. So by the way, they're about they grow about the same rate. It's it's kind of fun. So the key for me is to take out the part that if I cut nonproductive a million government employees who are nonproductive, meaning
[00:46:02] they don't make tanks. Right. Right. If I take that out, it's going to look like our GDP declined. But you'd say, "But what really happened?" No. Our expenses went down. This is so important, by the way, because people talk about a recession, and a lot of people create a lot of red lights and alarm bells about we're going to go into a recession if we cut all this spending. But the followon effect of cutting nonproductive spending
[00:46:26] is that the workforce and those dollars flow into more productive parts of the economy where we make more things, we create more jobs, we create higher wages. And that's the theory that you guys are trying to execute against. I don't think a lot of people in the general public fully understand that is so important to kind of explain and get across here. Okay. If we put three people behind us and they sat behind us and they did
[00:46:50] nothing and each of us gave them $125,000 just like this. Here you go. And they just sat there, right? What is that, right? That's not GDP. That's actually me taking my money and giving it to them. We produced nothing. We've no purpose of the earth. It was my money. The income, however, I earned my income was mine and I just gave it to them. They didn't really earn income. It's really a transfer pricing model
[00:47:17] that is currently considered in GDP and it's nonsense. So if I stopped paying them, okay, right? What would I do? The first thing you'd say is, well then why am I paying so much tax? Bang. Okay. So now we're in the concept of where Howard, do you have an intuition on what the actual GDP number is? I'm sure you if you take out non-productive spending. Yeah. But I I'm not going to talk about it until we release it because that's
[00:47:41] the proper way to do stuff. Got it. Right. But and I'm going to break that out. I think it's 25% and I'm going to break it out and I'm going to break it out for the last 20 years and what you're going to see 15% every time the quarter just before an election. All the government spending happens right then and there. And all of a sudden you have this jump in GDP, right? Total lie, right? Total lie. They basically they
[00:48:07] just take all this money and they jack it into the quarter so that we have that and you'll see it. It goes Whoop. And then they can what do you think the first quarter is? Whammo or the second quarter is whammo. Why? Because you pre-spent it. Right. Right. Right. And then you have this whole and it's it's gross. Yeah. Okay. That's the only way to us. You're like really? But it's so manipulated. Let me ask and the answer
[00:48:30] is I mean and to your point the the the game that's being played is we're going to take taxpayer dollars that people don't understand once you give it to the government. We're going to create these waves of fake growth that try to tip elections so that then the grift and the waste and all the fraud can then continue for as many years until the jig gets replayed over and over again. And it seems like the buck is stopping with
[00:48:56] you guys because you've exposed it. It's going to and that's the idea. The idea is to take a trillion of waste, fraud, and abuse out. Yeah. and then make a trillion from having other people um resetting global trade and once you understand global trade and how it makes sense and where it came from. Yeah. Can you explain that to us? Sorry. Before before we get there, I want to ask one last question on on on the cuts. Can we
[00:49:24] speak in um do we need to speak in a more empathetic way because that trillion dollars of spending flows into someone's pocket. some percentage of that pays people a salary and they live on that income. And I think a lot of the Okay, I think this is important for you to highlight because a lot of people are reacting to Elon and Doge and the budget cuts saying you're destroying jobs. You're taking money away from people
[00:49:48] that need their jobs. Why are you why rich people are taking away? I'm going to give you a sad example. And so like help us understand are people going to lose their jobs? I'm going to give you a sad example. We all remember during the co there was the PPP money. Yeah. Remember that? Yeah. Totally. So it was proven that 200 billion of the 1.2 trillion was going to Chinese fraud gangs. What? Why that proven? You
[00:50:15] just make up a company, right? You know, Joe's Delhi. Yeah. You make it up. Joe's Deli, right? Say you're in trouble. File and they sent you money. Yeah. So why wouldn't Chinese gangs do that? Come on. So we show not we but people showed the government those people that money and instead of stopping they said yeah but we can't stop because there are real people who need the money. And so what happens is because there's no no one's
[00:50:43] ever been fired ever for sending money to the wrong place. People send it on purpose. I'm not saying everybody sends it on purpose. I'm saying there are some people who send it on purpose. some people who are complete morons and and an enormous number of people who work for the government who are awesome. I mean, amazing people, right? But what percentage? Okay, if there's 5.9 million people who work for the government,
[00:51:09] you're like, "Wow, that's like so many and we're paying them all. And how many do you really need?" I mean, if the answer is 2 million, wow. And we could talk about how we understand it and how we're going to retrain society for the AI industrial revolution is coming which is going to create the greatest set of jobs and greatest set of growth ever. Ever. Okay. But that but then and we can talk about that. But the key is stop sending money
[00:51:38] to the wrong place so we can make sure we can always defend sending money to the right place. I would never allow, if I can stand it, to not pay somebody who retired at 65 their benefits. I find it disgusting when we're the richest country in the world and some politician says to in order to save Social Security, rather than getting rid of the waste, fraud, and abuse, we should move it to 70. Yeah. How about How about No.
[00:52:10] How about we're rich enough to give people the benefit of the bargain? Yeah. Mhm. of being a great American, but let's put great people in charge. That's really well said. I think that that's really well said. Okay, let's put a pin in let's put a pin in this because so let's Howard explain to us global trade as you understand it and then the context of tariffs and maybe historically and what role they played
[00:52:35] now. So I I remind people that on the earth there was the dark ages. So the dark ages meant that the world knew how to read and then because of religious and other actions they burned all the books. Yeah. Right. And literally the earth stopped learning how to read for 500 years or 400 years. We didn't know how to read. And we knew how to read before. So how could you forget? So America was built on tariffs with no
[00:53:05] income tax. No income tax till 1913. None. Greatest, richest country in the world. So when Donald Trump says make America great again, what he's talking about is from 1880 to 1913 when the country had so much money that we had blue ribbon commissions, which you guys would have been on. Yeah. Right. To try to figure out how to spend the money. Right. Right. And no income tax. Then we put in the income tax in 1913. Why? Because
[00:53:36] we're entering World War I. Yeah. And don't we all need to contribute to protect democracy and to protect our way of life? Right. Then what happens is the world goes into chaos? We come out of chaos, right? And then we're starting to think of what do we do? What do we do? And then 1929, the stock market crashes, right? 1933 we start to say, oh, oh god, we forgot we need to do tariffs. 1933, how can you do tariffs when the
[00:54:07] markets crash? The world's in going into depression and you're going to do tariffs in 1933. You can't charge the rest of the world money unless the rest of the world's okay. That's right. So, it was too little, too late, right? So, then we come out of World War II. It's 1945. We need to rebuild the world. Okay? So, we decide we're going to take our tariffs down and we'll let them, here's the key, we'll let them have tariffs be up and we
[00:54:36] will export the power of our economy to let them rebuild and we'll let them rebuild and that's what happens. So, 1945, we have the Marshall Plan, right? And we do it in Japan, of course, because they need to be rebuilt. What's the difference, right? So, they need to be rebuilt. And then what happens? We have the 50s and we have the Korean War. So we let them rebuild which means low tariffs here, high tariffs
[00:55:00] there. Low tariffs here, high tariffs there. Then we have the Vietnam war, right? So now all of a sudden we have all of Southeast Asia, low tariffs here, high tariffs there. You know what the best example I can give you to make it crystal clear? Kuwait. We spend what almost hundred billion dollars freeing Kuwait. Mhm. Right. You know who has the highest tariffs against the United States of America? The number one country with the
[00:55:27] highest tariffs against the United States of America. Kuwait. And you think what? That's it. But here's what it is. If you go back to this understanding the way America thinks, you need to be rebuilt. You were just destroyed, right? all their oils were. You remember red? The guy's name was Red something and he was the guy who capped all the there were fires in all the the the oil wells and he capped them all and it was
[00:55:57] amazing. So we let them put up high tariffs. But you know what the problem is? Then we forget, right? And we let it go. Yeah. So Donald Trump comes in and says it's got to stop. Okay. So that's an incredible context now for tariffs. It's like it was a long-term strategy that essentially says, "Okay, great. There's rebuilding to be done sort of almost out of the large s of America. We're going to enable that to happen.
[00:56:20] So, we'll lower tariffs here and we'll support the high tariff regimes over there. We let it happen. We let it happen on purpose. But it's an incredible thing you're also saying though, which is that it's inexurably linked to this repetitive machinery of war because those create these boundary conditions over and over again. Always where there's so much destruction abroad that America then feels compelled to
[00:56:42] have to do this. Correct. That's exactly That's exactly right. So what happens is and then you say to yourself, okay, I get the 40s, I get the 50s, I get the 70s, right? But 80s, 90s, 2000, 2010. What time out 20? So Donald Trump gets elected 2016. Who understands this? Okay, let me give you a hint. Donald J. Trump. Who else? Nobody. Nobody. Yeah. Right. You'd say, "Wow, he understand." And how long's he been talking about it? 40 years. Why?
[00:57:20] Because in the 80s he's saying, "What are you doing?" Well, let me give you the economist's counter, which and then you can respond to it, which is tariffs on imports in the United States will ultimately pass to the consumer. higher prices, inflationary. So the things that our consumers that our citizens are buying gets more expensive and as a result they buy less and it's recessionary. It shrinks the economy, it
[00:57:45] shrinks spending, it shrinks uh consumption. Can you kind of respond to the you know that's the the typical economist refrain on this independent and maybe they're isolating the imbalance. Okay. India has a 50% tariff on average. 50. We have on average four. Okay. I would say to the person who said that, can I ask you a question? What are you talking about? They're 50 and four. Here's what you're talking about. when
[00:58:24] we're all equal and everything is free and fair. If you raise tariffs and they raise tariffs, isn't it bad for society? The answer is of course it is. But there's two differences. Number one, let's do human beings first before we go to the math. Let's go to human beings. Once upon a time, we had an auto industry in Detroit. Okay. And in Ohio, but Detroit, then some genius named Bill Clinton signs the North American Free Trade Agreement or
[00:59:07] corporations. You can screw Americans and go get cheap labor in Mexico and break the unions by going to Canada. Now, if you were a General Motors, I'd say it's like my birthday. Yeah. But if you're a worker who comes from Michigan or Ohio, they just signed, you know what they signed? Worst statistic I'm going to tell you today. Average life expectancy of high school educated workforce. So by the way, United States of America 23 is high
[00:59:42] school educated, one-third is college educated. The difference today of average life expectancy between those two categories is seven years. Sevenyear average life expectancy. It's not the air. It's not the food. It's not the medicine. It's despair. My grandfather worked in the auto factory. My father worked in the autoactory. I have a good life. I'm going to do Friday night lights and football. I mean, it's gonna it's going
[01:00:09] to be a good life. I have a good middle class life. I'm a member of the United Auto Workers. Life is going to be good. The factory moves to Mexico and I am just screwed because the government of the United States of America had a didn't care about industrial policy and didn't protect me at all and let cheap labor in Mexico. I'm sure the Mexican people got went from $4 an hour to $5 an hour and they're kicking it. But I
[01:00:34] destroyed you. And that is incredible failure of industrial policy which nobody wants to talk about. But you talk about it at average life expectancy. And you're talking about it about reassuring and building the life for the people who are America. That's why you elect Donald Trump president. you elect him because I didn't spend one minute doing politics until he asked me to help him. But when he asked me to help him, I started spending time with
[01:01:08] him. When did I learn this? And who taught me this? The president of the United States. This is not me teaching him. You understand? This is him teaching me. And you can see him talking about it in the 80s. Right. Right. He's been talking about this for and what it does is it means reshore. So number one, we have to care about human beings. That's a globalist view. Yes. If I take my production and move it to Mexico, it's