[00:00:00] Do you go to New York much? Uh, never. I I closed my house. Oh, wow. I basically uh I tricked my wife. You know how your wife always wants to uh renovate your house? No idea. So, my wife that's like my wife always wants to renovate my house, right? Every minute I've been alive, my wife has wanted to renovate parts of my house. So, we moved out once a year and a half ago. Uh uh we moved out for a year and a half about six
[00:00:26] years ago. And she only did half the house. And she still rued the day that she only did half the house. Really? Yeah. So that so this so that was the deal. What I did is I uh bought a house wash and said, "You want to renovate the house?" She said, "Yeah." I said, "Great. We hired a contractor." Wait, you brought Brett Bear's house? No. Yeah, that's a beautiful house. We can I can talk about whatever you want. By the
[00:00:45] way, I'm happy to talk about serious things, casual things. No, let's just do this. Let's roll because he's roll. You're already running, right? He's on fire. All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. Oh, he crushed your questions. I made it. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys
[00:01:07] think? That was fun. That was great. Howard, thanks for being here. Thanks for joining myself and David Freeberg on the All-In podcast. I want to take a step back before we talk about today and instead talk about your friendship with the president, how it started, how you guys got to know each other and walk us through the moment when you, you know, frankly went out on a limb a little bit, stepped up, became the campaign finance
[00:01:33] chair, and then just that evolution. So, I've known the president since I was 30 years old. So, I used to go on the uh call, we call it the charity circuit in New York. Sure. So there's basically a charity party every night when you live in New York. Like the rubber chicken dinner. Like literally the rubber chicken. And and uh so sort of every night you go out and uh and so the boss of my company, Bernie Caner,
[00:01:58] he got tired of going, right? So he didn't want to go. So he would send me with his wife and I would be her walker. You know, I'm the 30-year-old CEO of the company. and I'd take her to the party and uh and after the party I'd put her in a limo and she'd go home and DJT would say, "Well, let's go out." And so we'd go out. It wasn't planned, but he was at the party. He's 45. I'm at the party 30. And we chase the same girls.
[00:02:26] Okay. It's basically it worked out fine. And and by the way, here's the thing about Donald Trump. He was the most famous, the most fun. Yeah, the most interesting person 30 years ago, 33 years ago. I mean, here's the best thing. He's been on the cover of Time magazine 59 times. No way. And then he leans over to me and he goes, "And 20 were good." Like, but who can take that? Yeah. I mean, who could take like other people
[00:02:58] when you have a bad cover of Time magazine, you'd crumple, right, and be sand on the floor and said he's like, but so Howard is is it that he's just totally wired to understand that moment like of being a public figure or like what is it that's so unique about what constitutes the ability to navigate that over 40 years? I think it it it adds energy to him to him. Right. So everybody else's energy, what they don't understand is people
[00:03:27] bring negative energy to Donald Trump, right? And they're just charging his battery. Okay? Your energy around him comes to him. So when I come at him with a lot of energy, he comes back with a lot of energy. Right. Right. It doesn't matter. He never he never steps back. He just sort of takes it like the centrifuge and then hurls it back at you. And he's been that way always. So this is not new. This is just who he is.
[00:03:51] This is who he is. So, so those other people who attack him, they think they're attacking him, they're charging his battery. They're literally charging his battery. So, he comes back bigger, stronger, bigger, stronger. And once you understand the man, the most intuitive person that you've ever met. Yeah. And people say, "Well, okay, so people who know me, I don't suffer fools." And they have all these derogatorial, my left
[00:04:16] liberal friends, all these derogatory statements about the guy, right? And they know me really well. Yeah. Right. And they'd say, "Well, how can you work for him?" I'd say, "How can I work for him?" The most intuitive person, he senses it. He knows it. He calls me up and he says, "Panama Canal." That's what he says. He goes, "Panama Canal." It just feels wrong. Right. And then he sends me on the quest to go I I didn't
[00:04:40] do anything. I just start the quest to go look at it. Yeah. Right. The mouth that's east is a deep water port by the Chinese. The mouth that's west is a deep water port by the Chinese. They're building bridges over it. So our ships and our military ships should go under right in our hemisphere a Chinese bridge. So then I said, "Okay, let's go prove it." So I have a a friend of mine. He's owns a big shipping company. I said, "Take two iPhones, put
[00:05:12] them on a stand, and just go through the Panama Canal." You know, the Panama Canal, they sort of drag ships through like this. And I said, "Just go video both ways." No, just video both ways. 70% of every letter is Chinese. Then I'm talking like the sides of containers ships, the stores, like I'm not talking like signage, just just random signage like you're riding on a road. It's all Chinese. And then I do the research and I call
[00:05:41] him back and I say the magic words between me and him. I have your path, which is I've done it. I've done the legal work. I've done everything. Right. So when you start talking about it, you have a foundation. It's not just you talking. So people think he's just talking. He's never just talking. Yeah. He has people behind him who bring him his foundational structural outcome. And then what does he do? He went and played
[00:06:06] golf that afternoon. He called me at 7:00 in the morning. He said, "What do you got?" We talked from 7:00 to 8. He went and played golf, right? And that afternoon, there's the American flag in the middle of the Panama Canal in some, you know, truth he puts out, right? And that's the fun part, right? So, you work for the the most intuitive guy. Yeah. Unbelievably smart, unbelievably thoughtful, who knows what he's doing.
[00:06:30] So, it's so fun for me. Howard, let's just go back one second. So, you have this deep relationship with him. You guys are friends. Scott Besson told us the story that about 18 months ago though he saw all this data about what was happening under Biden and he was just so concerned that these deficits and debts were getting so out of control he went to the president and said how can I help can I help that's a story um but was there a moment
[00:06:55] for you that was like rooted in something other than friendship like was there something on the ground where you said hold on a second this is a train wreck and we need to do this you were the finance chair for the campaign Well, no, I wasn't the fighting chair. I was the transition chair. Transition. Okay. So, I ran transition, which we'll talk about, but so let's go through. So, I'm friends with him, right? But I'm
[00:07:17] building my business. Young guy building my business. And then 911 happens. Yeah. Okay. So, I'm friends with the guy. I'm just friends with the guy. But then 911 happens. Kind, sweet, calls me all the time. Just good human being. Nice, warm, caring, good human being. Right. But then I'm knocked out. So what do I do next? I try to rebuild my company, take care of the families of 911. You know, I had I lost 658 people who work for me.
[00:07:45] And uh and we had a policy. We want to work with people that we like. So when we had an opening, we didn't use head hunters. We would say to everybody at the firm, does anybody know anybody who'd do this job? No. And so, you know, young lady works for me says, you know, my best friend is an HR person. They have to have capacity. Yeah. But once they have capacity, imagine we hire that person. Yeah. Now what happens is it's
[00:08:10] it's not one big happy family. Yeah. But people really really care about the company and that's our company that's on the top five floors of the World Trade Center on 911 when the plane hits it. Kills everybody at the office. My brother Gary, he dies at 36. My best friend Doug, he dies at 39. Uh, I had just turned 40 that summer. I had a party. 65 couples. It's my my 40th birthday. 40th birthday. Yeah. Right. 27
[00:08:40] people at my party get killed. Jesus. My friends. These are my friends. So, I'm driven to take care of the families of the people who who died. And I commit 25% of all of our profits. Uh, but the company's destroyed. So, we go from making a million a day. I was a rich guy, right? What's the definition of a rich guy? No personal debt, no corporate debt. Ken Fitzgerald, no debt. So, how do you survive 911? If you don't owe
[00:09:07] anybody any money, the only money you're losing is is your money. Is your money. So, we survive and we take care of our friends families and then we build the company back up. So, you could see like I'm uh I'm a special guest on the Celebrity Apprentice, the first season of Celebrity Apprentice. Piers Morgan wins. Did he fire you? No, no, I wasn't a contestant. I'm a little beyond being a contestant. I was a special guest. I'd
[00:09:36] come in like if you see during the auction, I'm standing next to him at the auction, you know, and I'm helping him like I'm just his friend sort of as an extra all along the way, you know, every once you kept the friendship going as you're rebuilding. We're friends all the way, but I'm rebuilding my company. Yeah. And then so I'm not interested in politics. Okay. I don't do anything in politics because I'm I got my head down.
[00:09:56] Right. We had the financial crisis. Cander children's great in the financial crisis. Had you ever donated to candidates at all or not? Yeah. New York candidates. Okay. Right. New York C. So, think about it. You're in New York. You try to pick uh social liberals, fiscal conservatives, right? If that even exists anymore. Right. But they if you're in New York, you have to pick and look, I grew up in New York, so I'm
[00:10:20] socially liberal. What else could I possibly be? Yeah. So, you know, so early when Chuck Schumer was young before he became what the president now calls a Palestinian, you know, you know, he you know, I raised him, you know, I I raised him money and gave him money. Donald Trump gave him money. Same. I I did too. Yeah. I mean, because he was he was uh that's what he said he was. He was social liberal, fiscal conservative
[00:10:43] and and uh so I you know, we'd all give to those kind of candidates, but mostly giving to get along, right? and to be able to, you know, ask him a question if you needed to ask him a question, but there was really no, I had no drive, right, in that like I said the first four nights I slept in Washington in the last 20 years when when Donald Trump was elected, I had never slept here. I'd come down, visit a little, go home, go
[00:11:09] home. What am I staying here for? So he calls me at the end of October 23. Okay. So he's already had his first term. You didn't you didn't support or get No, I was so I gave him money and I gave Hillary money. You gave Hillary money in the first term? Yeah, because Hillary was incredibly helpful to me post 911. Remember, she was a senator, right? And New York needed help, right? And Hillary was incredibly helpful and I was driving
[00:11:36] the team to help New York rebuild because I had relationships with a whole bunch of congressmen and they were going to do nice things. Like Bill Young ran House Appropriations, right? Bill Young was my friend, right, through a whole variety of things that had to do with um I used to go to Bethesda Naval Hospital and I used to walk around and I would bring music there for the men who got hurt from the military who were in
[00:12:05] Bethesda Naval Hospital. And uh we would walk around, I go with my wife and then I would engage the young man with music. I give him music and ask him what CDs he wanted. this is when CDs were there and I'd bring up a Walkman and my wife would pull the family outside and uh she'd pay a year of their mortgage and all their expenses because what people don't realize is your son loses his leg, right? Dad and mom come flying in and
[00:12:33] they're going to stay by his bedside. What job do these people have that allows them to be at their son's world? And their world is falling apart cuz their son lost his leg. So the world is falling apart, but at home their world is falling apart. Falling apart. And so my my wife uh would just just try to figure out how much money was and just give them a check. Yeah. And no no form, no nothing. Just give him the money.
[00:12:57] Yeah. And and help them. So I would bump into Billy Young and his wife who were they were just they ran then defense appropriations and they were there just being good human beings. And so we became friends. And he said to me once, he said, 'Is there anything I could ever do to help you? I'm like, look, you run, you're like a congressman from Florida who does defense appropriations. And I'm like a Jewish guy from New York who's in
[00:13:22] finance. If there ever were two skews that we're never going to meet, this is two ships going like, right, we got nothing. So I said to him, look, we're just going to be friends, right? We're never going to do anything. And then he runs House Appropriations. And so when New York needs money to rebuild after 911, they go see Bill Young to try to get a bill passed. And he said, "How can you come see me without Howard?" Yeah.
[00:13:44] You know, this is post 911. So I'm running New York. And Hillary does a really nice job. Okay. For New York. Yeah. And I told I told uh DJT, I call him DJT because I've known him for always. I said I told him that I can't forget. Yeah. I'm just not the person who's gonna forget. Of course, I gave him money, right? But I give it and and by the way, he still tortures me for it. So like and you know what the best part is? A good friend
[00:14:12] does. Yes. Right. You know what the point is? See, other people would would you know sort of curl back. Yeah. Right. So here right after he gets elected, okay, here's a story for you. So right after he gets elected, he has a dinner in New York, right? So he invites me to the dinner in New York cuz I'm his friend. And then while he's giving his talk to his first dinner in New York, he goes, "Wait, wait. Hillary's supporter
[00:14:34] and he points at me, right?" So I stand up, I go, "Hey everyone." And I sit down. You know, he's just sassing me, okay? Cuz I gave him tons of dough. He knows I love him and it's fine. Okay. So we're 2023. So we're 2023 and he calls me and he says, "Will you help me?" Yeah. And I had not thought politics. Now, I I gave him money in 2020 re-election. Yeah. Probably gave him 10 million bucks. I raised him 15 million bucks.
[00:15:04] So, I I was, you know, once I I'm on a side the whole way through. I'm raising him money in 17, 18, 19, 20. While he's president, I'm totally on his side. Yeah. And I'm But I'm just his friend. I'm not engaged. Yeah. Okay. Because I'm still rebuilding my life. Yeah. Okay. And then 2023 calls me, says, "Will you help me?" And I actually thought about it like, and that was the first time I really thought politics. And then I
[00:15:33] said, "Yes." And I gave him 10 million bucks right then and there. And then I started talking to him. I started going on the campaign trail. I started doing research. I started doing knowledge. I wanted I talked to him about everything. I talked to him all the time about everything. Did you love it? Cuz our our friend Sachs, we were talking at dinner last night. He seems to love it. Like there's nothing not to love. As Donald
[00:15:58] Trump says, this is a thousand Super Bowls, right? For him and for me, it's only a hundred Super Bowls. I mean, if if you're dedicated to America and you're willing to wear America's clothing and to stop worrying about yourself and only care about America. Yeah. and have no objective post. Yeah, the president hates when these people have like they raise money post from people they've met in here. So, I'm never going to work again. Okay,
[00:16:26] I'm never going to work. This is all I care about. I'm just going to help America. So, he asked me to help him and I start thinking about it. I start studying everything and I read everything and I read everything about the White House and I read everything about everything I can possibly read because I'm I'm just that way. And uh and then I start helping him. Yeah. Right. And I went to learn how he picked the judges, right, and the Supreme Court
[00:16:50] and why it didn't. And and uh I'm just very detailed. And so I started studying what transition is, right? Right. And I started studying it and I started studying tariffs cuz he wanted to talk about tariffs. And he's always thought the trade deficit was wrong and basically a ripoff of America. And I started studying everything about it. Yeah. And so he and I would talk about it and we knew everything about it. And