[00:58:24] we're all equal and everything is free and fair. If you raise tariffs and they raise tariffs, isn't it bad for society? The answer is of course it is. But there's two differences. Number one, let's do human beings first before we go to the math. Let's go to human beings. Once upon a time, we had an auto industry in Detroit. Okay. And in Ohio, but Detroit, then some genius named Bill Clinton signs the North American Free Trade Agreement or
[00:59:07] corporations. You can screw Americans and go get cheap labor in Mexico and break the unions by going to Canada. Now, if you were a General Motors, I'd say it's like my birthday. Yeah. But if you're a worker who comes from Michigan or Ohio, they just signed, you know what they signed? Worst statistic I'm going to tell you today. Average life expectancy of high school educated workforce. So by the way, United States of America 23 is high
[00:59:42] school educated, one-third is college educated. The difference today of average life expectancy between those two categories is seven years. Sevenyear average life expectancy. It's not the air. It's not the food. It's not the medicine. It's despair. My grandfather worked in the auto factory. My father worked in the autoactory. I have a good life. I'm going to do Friday night lights and football. I mean, it's gonna it's going
[01:00:09] to be a good life. I have a good middle class life. I'm a member of the United Auto Workers. Life is going to be good. The factory moves to Mexico and I am just screwed because the government of the United States of America had a didn't care about industrial policy and didn't protect me at all and let cheap labor in Mexico. I'm sure the Mexican people got went from $4 an hour to $5 an hour and they're kicking it. But I
[01:00:34] destroyed you. And that is incredible failure of industrial policy which nobody wants to talk about. But you talk about it at average life expectancy. And you're talking about it about reassuring and building the life for the people who are America. That's why you elect Donald Trump president. you elect him because I didn't spend one minute doing politics until he asked me to help him. But when he asked me to help him, I started spending time with
[01:01:08] him. When did I learn this? And who taught me this? The president of the United States. This is not me teaching him. You understand? This is him teaching me. And you can see him talking about it in the 80s. Right. Right. He's been talking about this for and what it does is it means reshore. So number one, we have to care about human beings. That's a globalist view. Yes. If I take my production and move it to Mexico, it's
[01:01:39] better for me, Mr. Corporation. Okay. But it's not better for me, Mr. US citizen of the United States of America who's working at a car plant. That's bad news for him. Okay? And that's number one. And now let's go to number two. which is the math of it all. If we say free and fair trade, I want to remind you there ain't no such thing. There is no country in this world that is free trade. Zero. And we are the
[01:02:15] lowest and the dumbest because everybody else is higher and more protective. Yeah. So they protect their farmers. Here I I'm sitting at the dinner. Modi comes to town and I say to him when Donald Trump we have dinner and after the nicities Donald says, "Go ahead. Go ahead, Howard." And I said, "You have 1.4 billion people and you brag to us how amazing your economy is. Why won't you buy a bushel of our corn? We'll buy a bushel of our corn so
[01:02:45] our farmers can't go to him, but his of course can come at us, right? Why is that okay?" You know, and we can go into all the stuff that oh, I mean, I don't even want to go into it because if I had another hour, I could retell you stories that are fun with that, but just address the pricing inflation that arises from tariffs. Talk to the average person who says the cost of a toy at Walmart just went up by 50%.
[01:03:09] Inflation comes from printing more money. Okay? Let's say the United States of America had $1 trillion. That's all we had. That's it. No more. Okay. And I want to buy a bottle of water and you want to buy a bottle of water. One came from America and the other one came from Fiji, right? Then and I tariff Fiji, then that water is a dollar and a quarter and this water's a dollar. Yeah, that's not inflation. That means that
[01:03:39] one's more expensive, but I can choose to buy this one. Right. Okay. So, you're right. This toy might be more expensive and that toy is not. I get it. But that's not inflation. Here's inflation. Snap my fingers. Now we have 2 trillion, right? That water is a $150. That water is a dollar and a quarter. Yeah. Everything's more expensive. That's inflation. Okay. So inflation without tariffs is everything's a buck and a
[01:04:02] quarter. Now what inflation with tariffs is a buck and a quarter, right? And a buck 50. And so you have to understand inflation doesn't come from tariffs. Certain products. If I put a tariff on a mango, right? We we can't grow mangoes in America. The we just can't grow a mango. If you put a tariff on a mango, the mango would be more expensive. Yes. Okay. But if the president chose to put a tariff on a mango, then the mango is
[01:04:34] more expensive. That's just becomes a consumption tax. It's like a sales tax. Yes. Right. It's a sales tax. It's a consumption tax. If I want to buy a mango, it costs more money. And you can offset that with a reduction in but that's so then that's just like another version of income tax. How do you how do you Okay. So the idea is to not do that. Yeah. That's the idea. The idea is to is to choose things that are going to
[01:04:59] reshore. Yeah. Exactly. Come here. This is so important. Hire my people. Yeah. Bring it home. Yeah. And by the way, I want to just speak as an entrepreneur. I see the economic incentive when I see the price for certain things go higher because you have to import and pay a tariff. I'm like, why don't we make that here? We should be doing that. And there's going to be a lot of that kind of entrepreneurial opportunity that will
[01:05:21] arise from making things. And it this is just how the markets work. Someone will say two trillion so far. I mean, he's been in office right like seven weeks, eight weeks. Yeah.$2 $2 trillion dollar of committed domestic production coming back because of his tariffs. TMC saying I'll build uh you know semiconductor wafers. Yeah. Um you know everything we do they're going to build it here. That word is never coming. Yeah. Yeah. Unless
[01:05:51] the tariff. So what happens is you bring it here you create the jobs here and then they avoid the tariff. And by the way, those jobs are better paying and they're more productive than the government funded. What do you what do you want to do about like the the narrow set of products that are more high value than the mango that maybe can't be made here or at least can't be made here in the next 5 to 10 years. So TSMC can make
[01:06:14] chips. I think that's great. ASML who makes the extremely complicated lithography machines as an example can't necessarily do that for another five or six years here. So there's these narrow cases where tariffs can exploit a market or perturb a market where there is no multi- vendor solution, right? But that's still critical. How do you think about that set of stuff? You know, the the beauty of putting Donald Trump in
[01:06:40] the White House is it's it's it's giant three-dimensional chess. Yeah. Okay. So, we all have Stockholm syndrome for the Internal Revenue Service. We think we like the Internal Revenue Service and we don't say it, but when we say we're going to charge a tariff and other countries who lean on us, who rely on us, who bleed on us, who can't live without the oxygen that is our economy. Cuz remember the thing about our economy
[01:07:13] is while we have a $29 trillion GDP, we are the consumer of 20 trillion. Yeah. Right. And this is the key thing. We buy everybody's stuff. So who's more important? The let's say they have an economy that produces stuff and we have an economy that buys stuff. Yeah. The customer is always right. We all know the customer is always right because if no one buys it, they can't produce it, right? So everybody needs our economy
[01:07:46] when now. I mean to the fact that China consumes less than 10 trillion and primarily tries to figure out how to sell it to itself. Yeah. Right. So they don't buy anybody else's stuff. Right. So we are the world's consumer. We're the world's customer. Right. Right. So that's point number one. So, we want them to come here and if they can't come here, what if you pass? Okay. Now, let's say there was a 20% tariff and in order to sell his
[01:08:19] goods, he knows he can raise the price 10% but he can't really sell it raise it 20. So, he eats 10 and the price goes up 10. Let's just say that 20 goes into the coffers of the United States of America from the president of the United States who said we're going to balance the budget and then his goal is to drive down income tax United States of America including waving tax. So what has he said so far with that in his pocket
[01:08:45] knowing that this is what we're going to try to do? What does he announce? No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security. Why is he saying those things? Right? because he knows that he's got Elon's going to cut and Howard's going to raise and he's going to have the tools to deliver on his promise more money for folks to spend and they'll have more money to spend right so if you if you actually get the
[01:09:11] external revenue service right which of course I named you know I named it but you know but you know what the funny part is I came up with the name I wrote a truth right and I sent it to to DJT and I wrote this is my huge idea, you know, with one of those things that goes like this. Yeah. You know, on the like my huge idea, right? And because it's the external revenue service, but it only matters because I work for him.
[01:09:41] Mhm. Because if I worked for Joe Biden or anybody else, they wouldn't care at all. So the fact that he loves a great idea the minute you say it and it becomes his idea. My idea is useless. A good idea in his hands. Okay. So speaking of all the value in the world. So the external revenue service if it if we went back to make America great again. Yeah. Which is pre-1913 which is let them pay you don't pay. And
[01:10:08] what that means is let them pay try to wave balance the budget. Try to wave tax on everybody who makes less than 150,000. Yeah. Right. And look what you did for America. Holy moly. Look what you, by the way, labor costs come smashing down because it's taxree. Yeah. So, if their earnings are taxfree, right? Then they're happy to work because they get the money, right? So, what happens is cost of labor comes down because we're run correctly
[01:10:37] as a government. This is what I'm trying to do. Speaking of potentially great ideas, can you tell us about the Trump card? Sure. So, whose idea was that? And how did that come about? John Pollson had a call with Donald Trump and was talking to Donald Trump and was kicking around the idea of we should sell, right? Why do we give away visas? We should sell them. And they're talking about it. Uh Donald Trump calls me, gets
[01:11:04] me on the phone, right? We all talk about it, right? And then we go from there. And then my job is to figure out like I always figure out how to do it. What's the path? Let's go figure it out. Of course, about two weeks from today, it goes out. Okay. Elon's building me the software right now. Yeah. Right. And then out it goes. And by the way, uh yesterday I sold a thousand. Oh, you did? I got a poly market I created on
[01:11:33] how many are you guys going to sell this year? So, yeah. Curious to see how many. That's fantastic. Do you want to tell people just the rough terms. Okay. Yeah. So, if you're a US citizen, you pay global tax. Yeah. Okay. So, you're not going to bring in outsiders going to come in to pay global tax. So, if you have a green card, which used to be a green card, now gold card, you're a permanent resident of America. You can
[01:11:59] be a citizen, but you don't have to be. And none of them are going to choose to be. What they're going to do is they're going to have the right to be in America. They'd be pay $5 million and they have the right to be an American. They have the right to be an American as long as they're good. As long as they're good people and they're vetted and they're vetted and they can't break the law. We could always take it away if they're
[01:12:21] like evil or mean or bad or something. Not mean, but you know, if they do something horrible, you could take it away, right? But but the idea is if if I was not American and I lived in any other country, I would buy six. One for me, one for my wife and my four kids because God forbid something happens. I I want to be able to go to America and I want to have the right to go to the airport to go to America and them to say
[01:12:45] hello Mr. Lutnik. Hello Mr. Lennox and the Latin family. Welcome home. Right? That's what I want to hear. I don't want to hear I can't come here when there's a you know a a horrible war, a horrible whatever, right? I want to be able to go home, right? And once I'm home, I might as well build a business. Yeah. So, you have the most productive people in the world going to start spending time here. They're going to
[01:13:11] have a family office. They're going to hire some people and you're not going to tax their external worldwide income. I only tax the money they make in America, which is what we do now. But their global income stays out and they pay 5 million. And how many people do you think there are that could qualify in the world? How many? There are 37 million people in the world who are capable of buying the card, in case you
[01:13:31] were wondering. 37 million. That's a lot more than Chad GPT told me. Who are capable of buying? Who are capable of buying it? Now, I'm not saying they will, but they're capable of buying. How many do you think he'll sell? Uh, the president thinks we can sell a million. So, five trillion trillion dollars. I think a million is reasonable. I mean, look, as as an outsider who came in and got his green card and then got his
[01:13:54] citizenship and now pay global tax every which way known to man, if this were available 15 years ago after the Facebook IPO, that's what I would have done. It would have been much better for me theoretically. Now, I'm happy I'm happy to pay the tax. So, the idea So, the idea is um and it's going to go fast. Meaning, you apply, right? We take your money and you know the way computers work now, they have these cool
[01:14:18] things like these computer things. They're amazing. You like, you know, you put stuff in and they actually check everything. It's It's fantastic. I don't You don't even have to plug them in anymore. It's amazing. Like, they get them they get the information through the air. I mean, you could do a better vet. Yeah. Than anybody in government has ever done it before in one second, right? Better than they've ever done it
[01:14:39] before. So, I'll I mean, I'll tell you a quick story. Monday night, Elon was telling us about this, Nean Sachs. And one of the things he was saying is he's been helping you build this site. these builders. But one of the most difficult parts of it is it turns out like all of the CPB infrastructure to do all these checks, it's like a lot of cobalt mainframes and the amount of technology that has to get rewritten. And so this
[01:15:00] is a question big opportunity. It's incredible that the most advanced nation in the world deployed systems in 1970 which at the time probably felt very cutting edge to everybody in the room at the time but to your point has not evolved in the last 50 years. It's always there's always a reason okay and the reason is it's a great reason which is that uh in the mid70s we changed the way government accounts for software we we took a
[01:15:31] 10-year contract and you have to take the contract up front. So if I if I'm signing a contract with you for 10 years a million a year I have to take it against my budget for 10 million. So I'm not doing it. See I'm only here for four years. So what happens is when was the last time we bought software? 1975. Where? Everywhere. Yeah. Why? Cuz it's illogical. Now what I'm doing is I'm saying, okay, I got to collect tariffs,
[01:15:59] right? So I go to one of the great software companies of the earth and I say, I want you to give me, you're going to build for me for America. You're going to build the greatest customs processing ever. We're going to take a photograph. It's going to know what it is. It's going to go through AI. It's going to know what it is. It's going to know what the tariff is. It's going to determine the percentage. It's going to know the
[01:16:21] weight. So, when you weigh the thing plus the package, you'll know what it weighs. You don't even have to open it. It'll weigh exactly the right amount. And you'll do this and that. And these are all things that I know and all things I could figure out. Cuz you know the way gold works, like gold bar is about 40 pounds. You know, the way I know that gold bar is they weigh it and they weigh out 13 digits of decimals.
[01:16:39] So, basically, if you touch the thing, it's not going to be 13 digits of decimals. So you have a perfect scale and you weigh it and that's like the code. Yeah. Right. Because you can't touch if you touch it, you'll change the and you can't get it right out 13 digits. It's just not possible. So that's we do with stuff. You know what it weighs, right? Three t-shirts on a if you send in the same three t-shirts,