[00:14:34] and he points at me, right?" So I stand up, I go, "Hey everyone." And I sit down. You know, he's just sassing me, okay? Cuz I gave him tons of dough. He knows I love him and it's fine. Okay. So we're 2023. So we're 2023 and he calls me and he says, "Will you help me?" Yeah. And I had not thought politics. Now, I I gave him money in 2020 re-election. Yeah. Probably gave him 10 million bucks. I raised him 15 million bucks.
[00:15:04] So, I I was, you know, once I I'm on a side the whole way through. I'm raising him money in 17, 18, 19, 20. While he's president, I'm totally on his side. Yeah. And I'm But I'm just his friend. I'm not engaged. Yeah. Okay. Because I'm still rebuilding my life. Yeah. Okay. And then 2023 calls me, says, "Will you help me?" And I actually thought about it like, and that was the first time I really thought politics. And then I
[00:15:33] said, "Yes." And I gave him 10 million bucks right then and there. And then I started talking to him. I started going on the campaign trail. I started doing research. I started doing knowledge. I wanted I talked to him about everything. I talked to him all the time about everything. Did you love it? Cuz our our friend Sachs, we were talking at dinner last night. He seems to love it. Like there's nothing not to love. As Donald
[00:15:58] Trump says, this is a thousand Super Bowls, right? For him and for me, it's only a hundred Super Bowls. I mean, if if you're dedicated to America and you're willing to wear America's clothing and to stop worrying about yourself and only care about America. Yeah. and have no objective post. Yeah, the president hates when these people have like they raise money post from people they've met in here. So, I'm never going to work again. Okay,
[00:16:26] I'm never going to work. This is all I care about. I'm just going to help America. So, he asked me to help him and I start thinking about it. I start studying everything and I read everything and I read everything about the White House and I read everything about everything I can possibly read because I'm I'm just that way. And uh and then I start helping him. Yeah. Right. And I went to learn how he picked the judges, right, and the Supreme Court
[00:16:50] and why it didn't. And and uh I'm just very detailed. And so I started studying what transition is, right? Right. And I started studying it and I started studying tariffs cuz he wanted to talk about tariffs. And he's always thought the trade deficit was wrong and basically a ripoff of America. And I started studying everything about it. Yeah. And so he and I would talk about it and we knew everything about it. And
[00:17:15] then he picked me to run Transition. Okay. So, we're going to talk about terrorists in a sec, but so double click into Transition. What did you find that was so interesting? Like what's I'll give you an example. So, there's a book called The Gatekeepers that was written that people gave me, "Oh, you should read this book." And it's about chiefs of staff. Okay. And basically, there's another way to call it. It's called The
[00:17:35] Jerks, right? Because what they do, imagine you're the gatekeeper. Yeah. You're the gatekeeper of what? Yeah. of the man who was elected president of the United States of America that he needs the gates kept from him. And if you listen to Nixon tapes, you hear him scheming to try to learn anything because what happens is the chief of staff, everybody reports to the chief of staff and the chief of staff reports to
[00:17:58] you. So you can't get on Air Force One without asking the chief of staff. You can't get a document unless you have the chief of staff. No one can come see you unless you have the chief of staff. And if they take your phone away, you know what you are? You're imprisoned. And that's the gatekeepers. So I said to Donald Trump, I said, "Look, you fired Ryance Prieous who was your chief of staff. Then you fired John Kelly as the
[00:18:20] chief of staff. Then you fired Mick Mulaney as chief of staff. Then you would have fired Meadows, but you didn't get a chance cuz you cuz the the the the next election. So I said, "Why don't you fire the job? What you need is a chief of staff who's actually your chief of staff, not who's the gatekeeper." Right. Right. And so that was an example of how I changed it. And so Susie Wilds is perfect for Donald Trump. You know why? She lets him be
[00:18:51] him. John Kelly took away his phone, right? So he couldn't communicate with anybody. Whereas Susie embraces who he is, helped him get elected, ran a great campaign. She's perfect for him in this role. And so that's what I brought. So I brought like an an understanding of him, right? And an understanding of the role, right? Right. And that's why I convinced your friend David Sax. Every time he said, "I can't do it." Yeah. I would
[00:19:20] call him and say, "It's an emergency. It's emergency. I need to see." You'd fly and go, "What is it?" I go, "You need to join the administration." He goes, "That's what the emergency was." I go, "Of course." And was And Howard, was that when you conceived originally Doge in that initial? Was that during the transition? All right. So Doge, yeah, we should talk about Doge and tariffs. Okay, so Doge comes it's it's
[00:19:41] October of uh before the election. Okay. Early October. October 2024. October 2024. Yeah. Like the beginning Yeah. of October 2024. And I called the president and I said, "I need uh I need to spend an hour with you because I have my big ideas." Yeah. Right. So he gives me he says, "Look, I'm not sure what to do. October 7th, right? Why Why don't we figure out what I should be doing October 7th? So, we decided we're going
[00:20:10] to go out to the Oell, which is uh uh a super religious uh hedic Jewish um Messiah. You know, the the people who wear black hats think he's the Messiah. And they have a crypt for him where you write a note and you put a note in. All right. And so we agreed we'd go out to that uh to that grave site and we'd probably win 60,000 of those kind of voters, which is pretty cool for a day. And then we drove there and back together, the two of us.
[00:20:40] So I had an hour and a half just he and me talking. And I said, I want to balance the budget in the United States of America. And I this is the way we're going to do it. We no one's ever checked the just under four trillion dollars of entitlements. Every politician thinks what you have to do is you have to take the retirement age from 65 and make it a 70, right? And you have to do this and this and this and this because they
[00:21:03] never think about the money. Totally. But people like us totally would say what's the first thing you do? What's the value I'm getting for my money? Totally right. And what you find is if nobody ever like as in ever like I could say the word ever 12 times has looked at where the money goes. Totally. And so there's not even a process to get it back when you send it to the wrong person. You just send another one out. Yeah. Like think about
[00:21:30] it. You just Well, I sent it accidentally or accidentally. Notice how it's accidental. It's always accidentally sent to the wrong person. Really? You wouldn't ever say the 5.9 million people who work for the government there could be some crooks in there, right? No, no, no. It's all accidental. What a load of nonsense this is. There's some percentage of this. But you would say, yeah, and you would say, no, just zero base it and let's figure
[00:21:52] out where it's got to be 25%. Yeah, we'd all say if it's never been checked, how could it not be 25%. How could it not be? And the answer is that's a trillion dollars a year, right? Okay. So I said I think we're going to cut a trillion dollars a year in expense and then I think we can through tariffs and other means we're going to get revenues have a trillion dollars incremental revenue incremental revenue and we're going to
[00:22:14] balance the budget but all but sorry let me just ask one question how do the tax cut to the extension of the tax cuts there they're there is zero basis that means where I was yesterday and where I am tomorrow like oh it's a tax cut no it's not it's the exact same thing as yesterday as today to say continuing yesterday tomorrow is like silly So, let me ask you let me ask you on tariffs. Having studied it yourself.
[00:22:36] When there's higher tariffs, people purchase less, things cost more. No, we'll talk about tariffs. Let's let's just finish. Let's just finish uh Doge. So, I'm in the car with him, right? And I said, "We're going to balance the budget." And I said, "I have one favor to ask of you. If we can balance the budget for you, will you agree to wave all income tax? I see for every person who makes less than $150,000 a year for
[00:23:02] the United States of America, which by the way is about 85% of America. Right. Right. And the reason you want to work for Donald Trump is he looks at me, he goes, "Sure." You realize the president of United States said, "If you balance the budget, sure." And he's not lying. He's not kidding. He's like, "Yeah, that seems that seems like a great idea." Right. Right. And so, and then I tell him, "Okay, I'm going to go recruit Elon
[00:23:30] because Elon's allin." Yeah. Right. He's already said he's all in. He's already said he's going to Pennsylvania. Yes. Right. So, I call Elon and I don't know Elon. I don't know. But he's perfect for this. So, I use my superpower, which is I call everybody else I know who knows him, and they arrange and I'm texting with him, and he agrees to meet me on October 14th. So, I fly down to Brownsville, Texas. Uh he's going to catch the rocket
[00:23:56] on October 14th. Right. So, that's what he invites me down for the rocket catch. That's right. Having nothing, he's not inviting me for the rocket catch. He's just inviting me down that that's a good day for me to meet him. So, I fly down. I see the rocket catch, which is awesome. Yeah. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. And then I expect to meet him. By the way, very pivotal day in the in the campaign. If you remember,
[00:24:14] Biden sort of didn't pay as much attention to it. Trump was pretty engaged. Elon was supportive of Trump. So, when he actually caught the rocket, the media was almost like frozen waiting for it to fail and it didn't fail and it worked and it was just incredible. I was waiting for Elon. Okay. So, I flew down to see Elon and uh with with my uh with my son and uh so we watched the rocket, right? And then they say, "Okay, he's
[00:24:39] gonna go hang out with his engineers and party with them." Seems reasonable. It's like an hour, hour and a half. And then he just goes dark. You're still waiting. I'm just sitting there waiting. And then they take me and I go to like a the equivalent of a Margaritavville, you know, where you have like a a basket and you can get quesadillas and get and you get a Diet Coke in a in a in a red sort of plastic thing that's about this tall. It's like
[00:25:02] got 4,000 ounces of Diet Coke in it that comes with this big. But now to his credit, he sends me all the executives from SpaceX are hanging with me, but he's dark. And what happened is he took a nap. He was up all night doing the engineering and he went to sleep. So then when he finally wakes up, so I'm just sitting there like, you know, doing the like I don't know him really. So I'm just doing the thumb twiddle. I'm going,
[00:25:26] okay, you know, this guy's got a couple. I'm hoping he sees me, right? So then he wakes up. He says, "Come to my house, right? I'll see you in my house." So, his house is 1,200 feet. It's got the furniture in it that I had when I graduated from college. Yeah. Right. Okay. I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding. It's 1,200 feet and it's got the furniture, plastic chairs, and Okay. So, I say, um, we're going to balance the budget. I
[00:25:53] need to cut a trillion. He's like, I'm in. He says, "I think we should cut 80% of the federal government because the essential employees, if the government shut down, essential employees are 450,000." Yeah. Okay. And there's 5.9 million people who work for the government. How can 450,000 be essential and there's 5.9 million? So he says, "Like Twitter, I think we should cut 80%." Yeah. And I say, "I know how to
[00:26:18] cut 50." And he says, "I want to cut 80." I said, "I know how to do 50." He goes, "Are you with me or against me?" I go, "I know how to legally do it. What do you have?" And my son says it was like two alpha dogs just like fighting with each other for the first half hour. And then and then um so then X comes in, right? And then he's got to walk X he's got to walk his son X out. So he walks his son X out. And I'm thinking maybe
[00:26:44] the meeting's over, right? Because we've been together a half hour, 40 minutes, and maybe it's over because he got up and he walked out. He comes back and he sits down. He goes, "Har, this meeting is right." That's what he says. this meeting and we sit down and we map out the plan. I tell them what a gratus vendor is. Yeah. Because I designed cuz I was not going to go into the government. I was doing transition. What
[00:27:05] is a gratus vendor? A gratus vendor is uh is a an approved vendor for the United States of America that gives product to the government. Doesn't sell it. Okay. So therefore I don't have to go through the whole process of becoming a proper vendor because you're giving it to us. And then if you give it to article two, which is the president's stuff, then the president can accept it, right? Because it's give. Sorry, how
[00:27:33] what's an example of this? Like just to make I write some software. You write some software. I write some software for the commerce department to do a better job of XYZ. Mhm. You just give it to me and then I do QA on it and I can take it. If you sell it to me for $1, we go into government hell, right? The whole rigomearole, right? But if you give it to me, right? And then I set up, you know, so I said, I'm calling it
[00:27:57] Doge and I registered the name Doge. You said that, of course. And were you familiar with Dogecoin and Elon? It's Elon. So what happens is in in the Defense Production Act in World War II, yes. In order to get all the great executives Yes. of America to help with production. They named everything after jazz singers or the things that of the people who were on the committee that it would make them laugh and smile.
[00:28:24] Okay. Right. So I picked Doge so he would laugh and he said get the f out of here. Like when I said we're going to name it Doge, the Department of Government Efficiency, which I didn't think of. It was on the internet sort of floating around in June. Yes. Right. But I literally registered it, right? as the department of government efficiency like make it a real thing as a gratus vendor and I said this is how I've done it for
[00:28:49] me. Yes. So that I can run Caner Fitzgerald, you can run SpaceX, right? You you're not you don't have to sign the conflict form and all this stuff because you're not working for the government. You're just giving stuff to the government. You are literally giving of yourself, right? But you're not looking for anything. You're not taking any money. You're not owning anything. You're not doing anything. You're not on
[00:29:11] that side of the wall. You're on this side, you're outside. Yeah. Right. And so we we had fun. We talked for two hours. And then on my Twitter feed, I took a picture of me and Elon outside and I put up, "Welcome to Doge. We are going to rip the waste out of our $6.5 trillion uh government and balance the budget. We must elect Donald J. Trump president." Yeah. Right. and and I posted that with my I probably at the time had 25,000
[00:29:41] viewers and I got 45 million views. Wow. Right. So it was me and Eli. Yeah. And that was the beginning of Doge. Yeah. Right. Then I ran transition which is so for the transition we had I had a room in Maraga. Yeah. Okay. Big conference table in the middle. Four 85in screens on one side and mirror four 85in screens on the other side so that you and I could talk to each other. So the president sat across from me. Yeah. Elon sat Oh, and
[00:30:08] then I'll tell you one other story about Elon. So he wins the election. President wins the election. He accepts it like Wednesday at 2:00 in the morning, right? Elon's not on stage. If you see, I'm on stage. Elon's way in the back of the room. There's a thousand people in the room. 2,000 people. He's way in the back. He he goes home. Thursday afternoon, I call. I'm doing a dry run of the launch of my transition, right?
[00:30:33] And the president is superstitious. He's never had one conversation with me about transition. He totally trusts me. He wins the election. Now he's got a look, you know, I said on Jess, he hasn't talked to you ahead of time about who he about one job about one thing. So until the election because he's superstitious like don't waste your time. Don't jinx it, right? Just go win. You got to go win. So what happens is he
[00:31:01] So I'm I'm doing a dry run. So, I call Elon and I said, 'Where are you?' He goes, 'What do you mean? I'm in Austin, Texas or whatever. I go, what are you doing? I mean, what is the point of you spending three weeks living in Pennsylvania helping the guy get elected if you're not going to help him pick the cabinet? Like, come on. Right. Because the way President Trump works, he makes decisions by orchestra. He likes lots of views and opinions. He