[01:14:39] before. So, I'll I mean, I'll tell you a quick story. Monday night, Elon was telling us about this, Nean Sachs. And one of the things he was saying is he's been helping you build this site. these builders. But one of the most difficult parts of it is it turns out like all of the CPB infrastructure to do all these checks, it's like a lot of cobalt mainframes and the amount of technology that has to get rewritten. And so this
[01:15:00] is a question big opportunity. It's incredible that the most advanced nation in the world deployed systems in 1970 which at the time probably felt very cutting edge to everybody in the room at the time but to your point has not evolved in the last 50 years. It's always there's always a reason okay and the reason is it's a great reason which is that uh in the mid70s we changed the way government accounts for software we we took a
[01:15:31] 10-year contract and you have to take the contract up front. So if I if I'm signing a contract with you for 10 years a million a year I have to take it against my budget for 10 million. So I'm not doing it. See I'm only here for four years. So what happens is when was the last time we bought software? 1975. Where? Everywhere. Yeah. Why? Cuz it's illogical. Now what I'm doing is I'm saying, okay, I got to collect tariffs,
[01:15:59] right? So I go to one of the great software companies of the earth and I say, I want you to give me, you're going to build for me for America. You're going to build the greatest customs processing ever. We're going to take a photograph. It's going to know what it is. It's going to go through AI. It's going to know what it is. It's going to know what the tariff is. It's going to determine the percentage. It's going to know the
[01:16:21] weight. So, when you weigh the thing plus the package, you'll know what it weighs. You don't even have to open it. It'll weigh exactly the right amount. And you'll do this and that. And these are all things that I know and all things I could figure out. Cuz you know the way gold works, like gold bar is about 40 pounds. You know, the way I know that gold bar is they weigh it and they weigh out 13 digits of decimals.
[01:16:39] So, basically, if you touch the thing, it's not going to be 13 digits of decimals. So you have a perfect scale and you weigh it and that's like the code. Yeah. Right. Because you can't touch if you touch it, you'll change the and you can't get it right out 13 digits. It's just not possible. So that's we do with stuff. You know what it weighs, right? Three t-shirts on a if you send in the same three t-shirts,
[01:17:01] they always weigh the same. But what's incredible is you're convincing these companies to basically like do right for America and build this software for you. You think that's going to be a movement throughout the government or is that here's the idea. I say, "Build it for me for free." Yeah. I put it in for free. I don't know what other countries in the world you think going to buy now. Right. If it works for us, well, remember, you
[01:17:22] have to you have to connect to me. Yeah. So, every country is going to buy, right? And it's a great business model. Right. Right. If the greatest customer in the world says they'll take it, Yeah. life's good, right? So, what should the greatest customer in the world get? I don't know, a good deal. Yeah. Right. And you got a guy like me there. You know, everybody else is like, Howard, you have to change how government
[01:17:44] operates if you're going to scale that. You can't go negotiate every contract out there for every department. I mean, it's not that hard when you say it free. You know, free is like not that hard. I mean, you Yes, it is. And then what I do is I get the head of that technology company. Yeah. Because I then I use my superpower, which is my friendship with Donald Trump, and then I go in the Oval Office and we call him together, right?
[01:18:05] And we call the CEO together and make him promise the president. Promising Howard is like really nice, right? Promising DJT, that's something else entirely. So, I get these guys to promise Donald Trump that they'll build it right now. Let's see him reag. Yeah, it ain't going to happen. So, you know, when you get Elon to say, "I'm going to build it for you." And he says it in front of the president, like, how great
[01:18:28] is that? You got like the greatest technologist, the richest guy in the world. He says, "I'll build it for you." You're like, "Thank God." Right? And then I get, you know, I go to the heads of Google and Microsoft and Amazon. They're all for America building for us, right? For free, right? To make America better because they are great American companies. And in exchange for that, we're going to help them through all
[01:18:56] sorts of things that are towards fairness. Just towards fairness because I you can't get me to do something outside the world of fairness. But I tell you what, if it's unfair, I'll be on your side as hard and as positive as I possibly can be. Talk to us about some of the hot button markets that you're going to have to navigate. You know, you are in charge of export controls, which is a very important thing in AI. We
[01:19:19] don't allow export licenses for the most advanced NVIDIA chips. We don't want training necessarily to be done outside of the United States. We're okay with inference happening outside the United States in certain conditions. Maybe just talk about that for a second. How like how do you how are you going to navigate AI? How do you think about that from your seat? All right. So I I'll give you an example that's sort of live right
[01:19:41] now. Yeah. Right. So we have DeepSeek, we have Quinn, we have DOBA. Yeah. Right. And and I don't think we should be having apps in America. And I don't think we should have their website in America because they all go back home. Okay. But it's open source. And I want our American companies, including college students, to be able to download it and build on it. Right. But I want to make sure that there's no part of it
[01:20:10] that says send it home to Dada. Right. Or or store now and analyze later. Right. Right. So I need that out. So what I want to do is I'm going to embrace what you guys know. You guys are used to product evaluations. Yeah. So let's do security val. Exactly. Right. and say your industry and you can't let it get overwhelm overrun by Chinese because what happens is if there's a policy, right, all of a sudden a 100,000
[01:20:37] people from China come in and they say they're John John Smith and and and Todd Peterson, right? But they're not and then you think the vote is this way. Yeah. And it's easily manipulated. So we have to be very careful. But my first instinct is to lean on and that and that's why I see it's important to have David Saxs as my partner, right? Someone who knows it and and someone who can live and breathe the industry, right?
[01:21:04] And so what we're going to have is we're going to have security evaluation and say if the security evaluation model says that this is a good model, yeah, then people can download it. Yeah, but it's smell like what we're good at. I don't want to create like, oh, this is what I don't want to do. I want us to do it, but I've got to figure out the right way to do that, right? And that's important. Articulate the standards,
[01:21:32] articulate sort of the concept, and then let a lot of these private market actors kind of help fill in the gaps and compete. The only thing I I think I really need to do and that's with regulatory is postquantum cryptography. Yeah. Okay. I I think that is vital to us. That's right. Yeah. Right. That that you know as I would bet this happens during this administration. He bets post. I I know. I'm gonna put it out
[01:21:58] because you know we all have passwords, right? For those who are watching who don't know this. Our passwords called asymmetric, right? Yours is different than mine, right? That's the key and cryptography is just the computing. So asymmetric key cryptography, you have your password. I have mine and they're the key. That's right. Right. Obviously the central hub has our key. Duh. Okay. A a quantum computer we know can break all of them
[01:22:24] in a nancond. Like all of them in the whole world including the CIA all of them. RSA 2048 all of them can get broken in a nancond by a quantum computer. Yeah. So, the defense of it is called postquantum cryptography, right? We know how to do it and we'll come out with a rule that says America's got to protect itself. New standards. And by the way, there are because every once in a while, you need to have a new standard
[01:22:47] that says it's coming. We know what it is. Please God, go put it in because we need to have it in. We need America to deliver. Great segue. Let's let's sort of segue now to a couple things that we can enjoin together in this concept. Crypto, obviously, Bitcoin. You guys announced the strategic Bitcoin reserve, but broadly speaking, you also announced sort of this idea of the sovereign wealth fund. Can we talk about that sort
[01:23:11] of what is the what is the vision behind that? How do you want that to be executed? How do you think it should be run? What assets are on the table? What assets and strategies may should never be on the table? How are you thinking about it? The greatest customer in the world, the United States government, the most powerful, the greatest customer, buys stuff. We walk in, we're gonna buy, here's the example I like to use, we're
[01:23:35] gonna buy two billion COVID vaccines. When we buy it, FISA and Madna stocks are going to triple. They're going to triple because then we say everyone's got to have this vaccine. If I were after Jared Kushner negotiated the best deal he could, if Howard Lutnik walked in the room, Howard Lutenic would say, "What do you think? 20% warrants? Right. 20% warrants, right? Right. What? So, we'd make $50 billion off of who? Nobody. We didn't
[01:24:08] take from anybody. We didn't do Okay. The shareholders of Fizer who we've just tripled them with our order. Right now, how many of my customers in my life have required that from me? All of them. All of them. Like, this isn't like, oh, Howard, this is the greatest new idea ever. This is just business proper. So I don't view risk of the sovereign wealth fund. I view the first couple of years of the sovereign wealth fund or Scott Bessant
[01:24:37] and I making money Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Say, well, but you can't invest and lose. Don't you lose money? No. Why? Well, if I have big daddy of the United States of America behind me, right? And I'll give you I'll give you an example. We buy missiles episodically. Launch a missile, buy a missile. Launch a missile, buy some missiles. Right. The people who sell us missiles have bad quarterly earnings or
[01:25:10] good quarterly earnings, but they're episodic. Yeah. Here we go. I will sign a contract with you, 10-year contract, cancel it at the end of five years to buy X amount of missiles, and I'll pay you quarterly. Then they can take that contract, they can go finance it, their financing costs go, their earnings are steady and their multiple improves and their stock doubles up. Yeah. And I say in exchange for that reasonable thought, how about a
[01:25:42] little warrants, right? Give me stock. Just for people that don't understand, give me some stock. Give me a little bit of your stock. But but don't give me some stock. Just give me the upside. If I if I help your stock go up, just a little bit. I I get to share it. And you know what I do? Wipe my beak a little bit. And then I take the money. Yeah. For the United States of America and I put it into the social security system
[01:26:00] in the United States of America. Okay. So why have And then all of a sudden, right? So the social security system says it's 4 trillion in the hole. Yeah. Okay. If we cut the waste for abuse out, it becomes uh 1.5 trillion. And by the way, Frank Biznano, the greatest executive, the greatest payments executive ever to join the US government, is about to get confirmed and take over the social security system. Okay, Frank ran Fiserve, $120
[01:26:28] billion public payments company. And when Donald Trump asked him in his interview, can you handle social security? It's 1.3 trillion a year. He goes, well, see, I I handle 500 billion a day. So, uh, Wednesday, right? And he goes, my whole life I my whole life all I worry about is getting rid of waste, fraud, abuse. That's all I care about every single day. $5, $2, $1. He goes, "This is going to be the most fun I've ever had." Yeah.
[01:26:51] I mean, this Yeah. Like this is a Donald Trump administration. This is something that's another planet. Now of course I recruit Frank and you know I get to have my piece in the game. But if we get rid of a couple hundred billion then it's only a trillion four in the hole. We make a trillion four. Yeah. That baby's that baby is finished forever. Is the sovereign wealth fund a balance sheet for social security? Does social
[01:27:16] security become more than what it is today? Does it over time offer bigger, greater benefits? And is it basically a pool that holds equities? Historically, and we talked about this on our show, it's only ever held treasuries, but it's really kind of a fake treasury. It's got 2.7 trillion today, but if we bought the S&P in 1971 when we went off the gold standard with the cash flows that have come in and gone out of social security,
[01:27:39] we'd have a $15 trillion interest in the S&P today. But you'd have that that would have had you have Donald Trump be the president the whole time, which was not a thing, right? Okay. But is that is that the objective is that the sovereign wealth fund is basically for the benefit of retirees in this country and it becomes like a sovereign wealth fund that we have a $36 trillion budget deficit. I mean debt debt. Yeah. To the
[01:28:00] United States of America and we we have a budget deficit of two trillion. So Donald Trump wants to knock down the two trillion. Yeah. And then he's focused on the 36 trillion of which the social security is part of it. Yeah. So how he allocates it. He was elected president of the United States. I was not. Yeah. Okay. I like the social security idea because it's really easy to explain to people and sell to people and so they
[01:28:20] understand it. But the fact is that it's the same money if I put it in social security or I put it on the debt of the United States of America. And I'm going to let Donald Trump make that decision. You know why? Because it's all he's like and none of it's not mine. So he will decide that. Okay. And he will play it his way. But but Scott Bessant and I will make more than a trillion dollars for the United States of America during
[01:28:44] our term, which is pretty darn cool, right? And we'll use that and if that reduces our debt, right? But that's not the policy of how we're going to balance the budget. We're going to balance the budget. Trump card tariffs, getting rid of scams. I'll give you a scam example. Every boat you've ever seen, like every single cruise ship, super tanker, container ship, you've never seen an American flag ever. In fact, you ever think about the flag
[01:29:19] you've actually seen? All of you would say, "I have no idea what that flag is." Like, why is it some flag I never heard of? Liberia is number one. And you go, what? No one even knows where Liberia is. Because the answer is it's a flag of convenience. They sell the flag for like 10 grand. Like they literally here you can have a flag and you pay no tax. So what happens is a cruise ship in the United States of America picks up
[01:29:42] American passengers, goes in the Caribbean, comes back to America and treats the port as an expense and all the profits are made in the Caribbean where it pays no tax. That's what I call a tax scam. Yeah. I mean it's unfair to America. We're going to fix that in America. We're going to try to fix a whole bunch of these tax scams. Ireland is my favorite. The country of Ireland last year had a $60 billion budget
[01:30:11] surplus. So we lose$2 trillion and they make 60. He'd say Ireland, what do they do? Oh, they have all of our IP for our great tech, all the tech companies. All our great tech companies and great pharma companies. And pharma. Yeah. They all put it there because it's low tax and they don't pay us. They pay them. So that's got to end. So when those things end, tariffs, trump card, getting rid of tax scams to get fair tax, that's my
[01:30:44] trillion. Elon's got to do his trillion. So whenever I see him getting off the rails, he and I go out and we have a strong conversation together that you've got to do your trillion. So, you got to focus not on small potatoes, right? Big, big, big, big, big. I need you to do your side of the trillion. Now, as it turns out, I'm going to do more than a trillion cuz I'm me. Elon's probably going to do more than a trillion because
[01:31:09] he's him. And then what we're going to do is going to our objective is to smash down the Internal Revenue Service and change America. And then imagine America. This is just an imagination moment, okay? We have a balanced budget in the United States. We're starting to knock down the the deficit of America. We can cut tax and we have a gold card, a Trump card that you can come to America. Which entrepreneur have you ever met who