[01:28:44] our term, which is pretty darn cool, right? And we'll use that and if that reduces our debt, right? But that's not the policy of how we're going to balance the budget. We're going to balance the budget. Trump card tariffs, getting rid of scams. I'll give you a scam example. Every boat you've ever seen, like every single cruise ship, super tanker, container ship, you've never seen an American flag ever. In fact, you ever think about the flag
[01:29:19] you've actually seen? All of you would say, "I have no idea what that flag is." Like, why is it some flag I never heard of? Liberia is number one. And you go, what? No one even knows where Liberia is. Because the answer is it's a flag of convenience. They sell the flag for like 10 grand. Like they literally here you can have a flag and you pay no tax. So what happens is a cruise ship in the United States of America picks up
[01:29:42] American passengers, goes in the Caribbean, comes back to America and treats the port as an expense and all the profits are made in the Caribbean where it pays no tax. That's what I call a tax scam. Yeah. I mean it's unfair to America. We're going to fix that in America. We're going to try to fix a whole bunch of these tax scams. Ireland is my favorite. The country of Ireland last year had a $60 billion budget
[01:30:11] surplus. So we lose$2 trillion and they make 60. He'd say Ireland, what do they do? Oh, they have all of our IP for our great tech, all the tech companies. All our great tech companies and great pharma companies. And pharma. Yeah. They all put it there because it's low tax and they don't pay us. They pay them. So that's got to end. So when those things end, tariffs, trump card, getting rid of tax scams to get fair tax, that's my
[01:30:44] trillion. Elon's got to do his trillion. So whenever I see him getting off the rails, he and I go out and we have a strong conversation together that you've got to do your trillion. So, you got to focus not on small potatoes, right? Big, big, big, big, big. I need you to do your side of the trillion. Now, as it turns out, I'm going to do more than a trillion cuz I'm me. Elon's probably going to do more than a trillion because
[01:31:09] he's him. And then what we're going to do is going to our objective is to smash down the Internal Revenue Service and change America. And then imagine America. This is just an imagination moment, okay? We have a balanced budget in the United States. We're starting to knock down the the deficit of America. We can cut tax and we have a gold card, a Trump card that you can come to America. Which entrepreneur have you ever met who
[01:31:42] wouldn't buy one? Yeah. and wouldn't start building businesses when they think the tax rate here is going to come down and eventually it's going to come down to 20% and eventually it's going to come down to 15%. You won't be able to find a plot of land in America. You know what I predict will happen? I predict the just like in the medallion industry for taxi cabs, there'll be a financing industry that'll build up around these
[01:32:01] uh these gold cards or these trump cards that great entrepreneurs, great executives will be able to finance their purchase along with someone getting venture capital interest or equity interest in their business. But I'm going to we're going to take that money. We're gonna we so we'll sell them every year. Yeah. Right. So they'll knock down our budget deficit and then eventually Right. If if Donald Trump is right and
[01:32:23] ultimately we can sell 7 million cards. Mhm. You realize there is no debt in America. No debt in America is a trillion dollars a year in debt coverage. Right. Trillion dollars a year in debt coverage. You know what that changes? That changes the Internal Revenue Service. You you start to rethink and I just want to remind you, right? We are the richest country on earth. Our balance sheet is 500 trillion. I give you an example. What's
[01:32:48] the court system of America worth? Right. Right. What's it worth? Well, how can Nvidia be worth three trillion without a court system that protects it? Right. There's no such thing. So just our everything about us, the infrastructure is awesome. And you know what happens? We we we actually like we get beaten upon and we actually believe it. Yeah. You could ask Doug Bergam about how undervalued a lot of our real
[01:33:11] estate is in this country and the potential for it. We think about Biden closed 635 million acres. This is this is electing Joe Biden head of Saudi Arabia and he closes the oil wells. Yeah. And all of a sudden Saudi Arabia falls off the face of the earth broke. Like what are we doing? Like we care about Americans. Yeah. Let's make Americans lives great. Howard, we want clean water. We want clean air. Okay. We
[01:33:41] do it better than everybody else. But if we don't Here's the one like the hypocrisy, right? We won't mine lithium in America to make a battery. Yeah. But so we so the Australians mine it with coal and it's messy because they do it like, you know, they do it messy. By the way, we breathe the air in 3.4 days, but who's counting, right? Then we take it, we put it on a truck. We take put the truck and put it in a super tanker. We
[01:34:04] drive this super tanker that pollutes the living heck out of the world across 12,000 miles of ocean, puts it in a truck and gives it to Elon to make an electric car. Why don't we mine the lithium in Nevada, right? And by the way, we'd mine it cleaner, right? And by the way, it's not just lithium. Almost anything that we could possibly conceive of needing over the next couple of decades exists in the continental United States. We just have
[01:34:32] had no incentive or no structure regulatory wise that enables the development of it which is this is we need to care for us make America you know America first. How about there's another way to say well maintaining clean environmental first. Well maintaining environmental standards. Yeah. Don't look we're never going to do something that's not like a hundred times cleaner than everybody else cuz we care about clean water and clean air.
[01:35:01] There's none of us who don't care about clean water and clean air, but you know, like someone gives you a pill and says, "This will save you." And then you look at the statistic and it saves one in a million people and you'd say, "Uh, why am I taking this pill?" You say, "Well, it'll it could save your life." You'd say, "Yeah, but it's like one in a million." Right? That's not logical. Right? That's the point. You know,
[01:35:25] there's a regulation. That's the right thing. Yeah. And there's a regulation that's that's the one ina million pill. Like why do we give a baby a baby a hepatitis B vaccine? Do you realize we have a brand new baby and we hold it up and we give it a hepatitis B vaccine? You realize the only way you get hepatitis B was is from unprotected uh sex or a needle. Like why are we giving them to a baby? Like why? And you
[01:35:56] know what it is? You know what the answer is? corruption that someone in the government got paid to put that in the rules and because there's no justification. There's no I haven't met a medical doctor who says hepatitis B vaccines on brand new babies make sense because by the way, you know what the worst part is? They only last 10 years. You need a booster in 10 years. So, the baby's going to be 10. We've got to
[01:36:21] really be fair to ourselves and be fair to Americans. And I think we can be. And I think that's why I'm so excited. That's why our cabinet is so excited. That's why it's so much fun to work for Donald Trump. Because I am just speaking from his playbook, right? Because if you had met me before he said, "Will you help me?" And he went out to dinner with me and said, "So tell me about government." I'd say, "Uh, government? You mean I pay them
[01:36:52] taxes?" Like that's it. Are you having the time of your life? the most fun ever because I have every idea either gets blown up or shot down. Okay? Meaning I come up with lots of ideas and he says, "Nah, too complex." And you know what? That's fine. Yeah. But when I come up with the external revenue service and he says, "Great idea." And then he speaks of it in his inaugural address, right? It's his idea. Yeah. Because I can't do
[01:37:21] anything with it. Howard, last question as we wrap. Tell us about your family, your kids, how do they think about all of this? Your son's running caner now. How's that going? Just give us the lay of the land. How how's the Lutnik family? All right. So, I have I have the best wife. I've been married 30 years. Uh she lets me be me and she's gorgeous, spectacular. I love my girl. Um she agreed. I mean, imagine this. I'm not
[01:37:46] I'm not joining the government. I'm not joining the government. I'm doing this Doge thing with Elon. I'm not joining. I'm not joining. Honey, we got to move. Like, honey, we got to move two weeks after election day. I'm like, we're moving. And uh we're going to in five weeks we're going to live in Washington, okay? And like, so the fact that that wasn't unsettling would be the understatement of a lifetime. But she's
[01:38:07] been the most supportive and fantastic. I have four kids. Uh my oldest son about to turn 29. I was taking him to kindergarten, so that's why I'm alive. My second son, Brandon, I dropped him off in nursing school and then took my oldest son to kindergarten. Um, so the two oldest boys are running caner now until I Deb asked. Is it going well? I don't know. Oh, you of course you're not supposed to know you. It's kind of
[01:38:33] fun. I would love to talk to them about it. You have no idea, but I'm not allowed. Like I I literally am not allowed. And you know, we all know the phones. Yeah. So since the phone's always with me and I assume the phone is listening. You know, ever since we couldn't take our battery out of our phone, you know, the phone is listening. So, you know, I'm not No. So, I never talked to my son. So, uh I'm sure they're happy, but I don't know how it's
[01:38:55] going. Guys, if you're listening, he's doing great, as you can tell, but and then my my daughter is going to go to med school. Yeah. And she's on a gap year now. And my youngest son also on a gap year now, and he's going to uh start Duke in the fall, right? So, I have the best kids. uh my kids have lived with me and they lived with this kind of energy and this positive sort of momentum and and my wife being just a spectacular mom just
[01:39:23] keeping them what we taught our kids which is a fun one is uh I taught him two things uh I would sit down with my kids and say how great is your life and this is only maybe something that people like we can say but I'm talking to my kids I say how great is your life they go great cuz they came home and they Hey, I got a bad grade. Teacher doesn't like me. It's a classic line, right? Yeah. And I said, well, how good's your life?
[01:39:50] Really good. I go, could it be be any better? No. Well, do you realize your teacher has given up her whole life? Yeah. And she makes how much money? Yeah. And she's given her whole life to teach you. Yeah. So, can I ask you a question? Is it her job to like you or is it your job for her to like you? who's failing in what you just said, right? It's your job to have her like you. So, when she says raise your hand, raise your hand. Right? And the
[01:40:22] other thing is, do me a favor, color inside the lines. Okay? In high school, if she says this guy is orange, the answer to the test is orange. When you get to college, you can argue with the professor all you want. High school, color inside the lines. Give the teacher what she wants. Make sure she loves you. and you're getting a good grade. That's the rules of life. Yeah. And my wife beat that into my children so that they
[01:40:47] would have it in their souls in their moral character. Yeah. Of someone who's fighting for you, needs to have your love and respect back. If you take them for granted, if you treat them badly, if you treat them like, "Oh, aren't I so great?" Then you deserve what you get. And my wife has taught that moral fiber into my children and it it resides in them. And the other thing my kids have is they have empathy which is a very
[01:41:17] unusual thing for young people. And it's because they're they were raised with their father crying every day. I cried every day until October 21st, 2004. Wow. every day because I thought of someone I hadn't thought of, you know, or someone would say 658 people died and I I just there was you can't process all of that death. Yeah. Without crying. And and the only reason I remember is cuz as I fell asleep, I told my wife that I didn't cry
[01:41:51] today and she wrote it down. That's the only reason I remember. So, um my kids are are fantastic. They've been incredibly supportive and uh and my wife's the best and she lives with me in Washington. We bought Brett Bear's house, so I have a nice house big enough for my ego to expand. Very important. Tomorrow hasn't found one that big yet to look at. Howard, you're an incredible American. Thank you very much for everything. This was
[01:42:19] really fun in coming to talk. Honestly, this is this has been one of my I mean my favorite conversation we've had. Absolutely. I mean, like he's like this all the time. I mean, not just like we have dinner at like Nicasha's house, who's a good friend of ours, runs Paul Altera Networks, and Howard's like, you just push the button and you can just sit and just listen. You can listen to him for hours. By the way, I will say I'll echo the point you
[01:42:40] made earlier. I think every member of this cabinet is an incredible storyteller. I mean, you're like on another level, but like the storytelling, I think, is what's so powerful about this cabinet and this administration. And I think it's going to take some time to get the message out. But man, is are there incredible ambassadors to do so with they are so capable. Yeah. Each of them is so capable, so thoughtful. I mean, I I am
[01:43:04] honored to be on this cabinet with them. But we all get to work for Donald Trump who can intuitively tell you, "Go fix eggs." Yeah. Yeah. And then Brooke goes fix eggs and eggs are down like 40%. And Brooke fixes eggs. I mean, how awesome is that? Right. And gas is down 40 cents, right? And he's only just begun. if we get if we get the Constitution pipeline in New York passed. And I sat with him while Donald Trump lectured
[01:43:34] Governor Hokll on the unbelievable oil in fracking that they have in New York and the wealth that New York could have if they unleashed it, but they refused to unleash it. So he's going to force the Constitution pipeline, which by the way will drop gas on the east coast of the United States of America, in half. M I mean this is and that's you know then you got that's Chris Wright that's Doug Bergam you got Brook Rollins I mean you could just go
[01:44:02] you know Scott Bessant you know so thoughtful and elegant I mean he's he just step by step by step and you have really the most fun cabinet working for the most intuitive smartest guy to ever sit behind the Resolute desk and we're going to make America great again not as a slogan but we're going to balance the budget we're going change America. Thank you, Howard. Thanks, [Music] Howard. I'm going all in.