[00:28:49] me. Yes. So that I can run Caner Fitzgerald, you can run SpaceX, right? You you're not you don't have to sign the conflict form and all this stuff because you're not working for the government. You're just giving stuff to the government. You are literally giving of yourself, right? But you're not looking for anything. You're not taking any money. You're not owning anything. You're not doing anything. You're not on
[00:29:11] that side of the wall. You're on this side, you're outside. Yeah. Right. And so we we had fun. We talked for two hours. And then on my Twitter feed, I took a picture of me and Elon outside and I put up, "Welcome to Doge. We are going to rip the waste out of our $6.5 trillion uh government and balance the budget. We must elect Donald J. Trump president." Yeah. Right. and and I posted that with my I probably at the time had 25,000
[00:29:41] viewers and I got 45 million views. Wow. Right. So it was me and Eli. Yeah. And that was the beginning of Doge. Yeah. Right. Then I ran transition which is so for the transition we had I had a room in Maraga. Yeah. Okay. Big conference table in the middle. Four 85in screens on one side and mirror four 85in screens on the other side so that you and I could talk to each other. So the president sat across from me. Yeah. Elon sat Oh, and
[00:30:08] then I'll tell you one other story about Elon. So he wins the election. President wins the election. He accepts it like Wednesday at 2:00 in the morning, right? Elon's not on stage. If you see, I'm on stage. Elon's way in the back of the room. There's a thousand people in the room. 2,000 people. He's way in the back. He he goes home. Thursday afternoon, I call. I'm doing a dry run of the launch of my transition, right?
[00:30:33] And the president is superstitious. He's never had one conversation with me about transition. He totally trusts me. He wins the election. Now he's got a look, you know, I said on Jess, he hasn't talked to you ahead of time about who he about one job about one thing. So until the election because he's superstitious like don't waste your time. Don't jinx it, right? Just go win. You got to go win. So what happens is he
[00:31:01] So I'm I'm doing a dry run. So, I call Elon and I said, 'Where are you?' He goes, 'What do you mean? I'm in Austin, Texas or whatever. I go, what are you doing? I mean, what is the point of you spending three weeks living in Pennsylvania helping the guy get elected if you're not going to help him pick the cabinet? Like, come on. Right. Because the way President Trump works, he makes decisions by orchestra. He likes lots of views and opinions. He
[00:31:33] likes them. And anybody who says, "Oh, the last person who sees him gets them." That's because they don't know him at all. Right. Right. The answer is it's an orchestra. Right. And I would say, "Okay, I'm the first violin." You know, at the time I would say I was, you know, I would describe myself as second violin. Yeah. Right. So this is an orchestra. So the president's not going to make a decision with me and him
[00:31:54] alone. Yeah. No. No. He's gonna have So he So it went like this. president sitting across from me right at the conference table. Elon to his left, Suzie to his right, right? JD to my left, Linda McMahon who was my co-chair, right? But she wrote all those EOS that he did. That was she was responsible for and I was responsible for personnel but she was with me for personnel. So she's sitting to my right, JD sitting to my
[00:32:19] left, Don Jr. right, Steven Miller, any and and he there was always 12 people in the room. They were never like me and him hushed in the corner doing this and that. Never. And what we would do is I would put eight candidates on one screen. Right. Right. And then big candidate on each screen. Most beautiful AI picture of you've ever seen. Right. And people would walk in and go, "Where'd you get that photo?" I'm like,
[00:32:42] "What do you think I did? I took three of your photos." I've heard secondhand stories of this room during the transition that there you walk in and everyone's photo is up on the screen. Everybody's on the room. And so that's a candidate for a role. And then you guys would debate it. And so what happened was a big picture of the person. Yeah, they're they're key highlights of the resume, not boring, their education,
[00:32:59] right? And then you would click a button and you'd see them speaking 20 seconds at a time, four of them, right? So, it's about 80 seconds and you're not speaking about the job. Just like how do you present? Totally. And what you can see is his whole cabinet can talk. Totally. All of them. Totally. because he picked them knowing I need you to be able to talk to be able to present our ideas and our concepts out there and that's key to
[00:33:24] him and what I would the way I would joke to people is say how do you do it I go watch pitch so you throw him a curveball he wouldn't swing you throw him fast ball he wouldn't swing you throw him a slider he hits the ball hits it to my glove I go here you go you go well how do you know that I go because I know the guy for 33 years I know what he wants and he loved the process and you know what happened you saw what happened
[00:33:45] right first A eight candidates, 12 jobs, national security. Okay. He says, "What do you want?" I go, "Eight to four." I put up eight candidates. I recruited everybody. I had 150 of the best Republicans in the United States of America. They each gave me five people who then gave me 10 people. I had thousands of people to pick from. The whole government was set up to pick from. And then we picked candidates. I
[00:34:11] had eight for every job. Yeah. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. 8 to four. That's Friday. Sunday comes in 4 to 2 in the morning. I fly everybody in for the two. I prep them. We go in and meet them. Two to one. Final interview. Give him the job. Wow. Bang. Bang. Bang. Bang. Bang. Monday. T Monday. We're done with national security. Okay. Now we're rolling on. And it just pounds out. Why? Because he had every candidate.
[00:34:41] Everybody knew it. Everybody was prepped. Everybody was aware. Everybody was done. You know, that's why I had to beat the heck out of David Saxs because I needed David Sachs to be in the government. I recruited David. I pounded on David. You can ask David, right? I beat him and beat him and beat him until he finally said, "Okay, I'm going to do it." Right. And I did that for everybody. Yeah. Right. And I made sure
[00:35:02] he had the greatest choices. And then every once in a while, he would call me at night and say, "Throw this guy in. Throw this guy in. Throw this guy in." We did a vet on everybody. But I didn't take out anything negative. I am not a negative person. You can tell. I'm positive. So why would I discuss anything negative about any candidate until I get picked? There was no game theory. A lot of people speculated there
[00:35:23] was game theory that we'll put a mix of people that will assume some won't make it out of committee and then we'll end up with the ones that we do want. Everyone was the number one choice. Only one. Only one. Only one. And that was Matt. Matt. Yeah. What happened what happened with Matt Howard? How did that process? He he was tortured by his attorney general in the first term and we were not going to have that ever
[00:35:45] again. Right. So we needed strong backbone, strong capacity of which Matt Gates has it. Yeah. And I know Matt Gates and he has it. Right. But we did not know what that vet was going to say from that report from Congress. So here was the idea. We fight for him and we fight for him to get through and then we read the report. The report's not bad. Remember, the president's been tortured by people blaming him for stuff that
[00:36:12] never happened. Oh, 30 years ago, he raped this woman in the in the dressing room of Bloomingdales. I mean, what a load of crap, right? It's just not true. None of it's true. It's ridiculous. So, he he comes at this saying, I know you're going to get tortured with ridiculous, right? So, then he says, if it's if it's ridiculous, then we support Matt, and if it's not, we have Pam right here, right now. So that was lined up so
[00:36:37] that everybody knows it's right here right now. And it's 3D chess. So we read it. Pam. Okay. It's like Pam in a hundth of a second, right? And Pam is a rockar. And you could argue that you would say, "Well, why didn't you pick her first?" You know what? He's the president. He plays 3D chess. He did it his way. And you know what? But there was no candidate up there. Yeah. Who wasn't right. Yeah. Right. And we could
[00:37:04] talk about all the detail and how we thought about it, what it went. But it was so thoughtful, so intuitive, and so right. And what does it produce? The greatest cabinet ever. The most capable, thoughtful, best able to communicate. I mean, it's so fun to be in a room with these people because these are worldclass people, the best ever in government. We shouldn't betray confidence, but I mean, we were in a room earlier this week with several of
[00:37:30] them, and everyone had a moment to speak. It was unbelievable. I mean, look, every single one of them you're like could have been a leader of the country. Like, they're all great. That's the point. He picked He picked greatness. Now, I was the recruiter. So, I was a recruiter and chief, but I can understand why now, by the way. Well, but think about it. If you take someone like me, Yeah. and you say, "Just be a head hunter." Yeah. I
[00:37:54] swear to you, I can be the greatest head hunter ever to live. Because think about it. What's the odds of saying, "Okay, Howard, your whole job is just be a head hunter. Find the best guys. I promise you I'll be really good. Okay. Can we go back to Doge? So you talked about the Gatus vendors. Maybe there's other stuff that you can do with executive action the president can do with Doge, etc. Can we talk about congressional budgets? How
[00:38:17] how do we actually balance a budget without bringing Congress along? And is the plan to bring Congress along? I've asked this of Bessant. I've asked this several times since we've been here. And it's the thing that gives me the most heartache and the most headache is I worry about whether this actually gets there given congressional interests. I think Congress works with something called scoring. Yeah. Right. That that if it
[00:38:43] comes from their pen, it counts. If it doesn't come from their pen, it doesn't count. But the fact is money always counts. It just doesn't count for their scoring. But their scoring is only part of the game, right? The outcome of the game is what matters to me, Elon, our cabinet, and Donald Trump. Okay? The outcome of the game. And I'm telling you, the outcome of the game by me and Elon. Now, a funny part of it is so I
[00:39:15] invite Elon to Madison Square Garden. He doesn't want to leave Pennsylvania, right? Because he, you know, Elon, he's committed to Pennsylvania. Yeah. So I convince him he's got to come and we have a plan. I'm going to say to him, so I everyone else gets introduced by the voice of God. I'm the only one who introduces Elon. So Elon comes on stage with me. There's the two of us on stage in Madison Square Garden. The only time
[00:39:38] the two of us are on stage. I'm the fourth speaker. He's the third from the end. JD is second from the end. And Donald Trump is last. Okay. So, he's supposed to say when I I say to him, "How much are you going to cut?" The deal was he's going to cut $1 trillion. And then he's supposed to say, "And how much are you going to earn?" And I'm supposed to say, "1 $1 trillion." And then we're supposed to say, "Together,
[00:40:01] we're going to balance budget United States of America." That's that's the little sort of thing. So, I ask Elon, "How much you going to cut?" And he because he said he said two trillion. Well, because we're in front of 22,000 people and the place is erupting. He says two trillion and then I'm sitting there going and I'm like I think I said allighty then or something like that you know like what was I supposed to say you
[00:40:26] know so later when he walks back to a trillion no you were you were caught off guard but I mean it's quite how much you going to earn. No cuz he said two trillion I got it all don't worry like like I said all righty then and that was that. So then I walked off stage and you know he said two trillion so like what am I going to say? But the answer was always right that 25% of the waste for an abuse is a trillion dollars, right?
[00:40:50] And he's got to cut and find the waste for an abuse of a trillion dollars. Okay. Okay. And that my job is to raise $1 trillion of exogenous new revenues, new revenue for the government. And we Right. I'm telling you, I've been here now two months. Yeah. Right. I am more confident it's going to happen and more excited. Tell us how it happened. Well, hold on a second. So Howard, let's let's finish this and then we'll move to
[00:41:14] tariffs and revenue generation. So there's a lot of domestic terrorism. Is that the response to try to slow down the expense side of the house? Is it is it basically to put fear into people that are trying to find this waste and fraud? Is that is that what that is? The burning of the dealerships. The If you're I I describe it to people this way. Let's say Social Security didn't send out their checks this month. My mother-in-law, who's
[00:41:44] 94, she wouldn't call and complain. Mhm. She just wouldn't. She'd think something got messed up and she'll get it next month. Yeah. Mhm. A fraudster always makes the loudest noise screaming, yelling, and complaining. And if all the guys who did PayPal, like Elon knows this by heart, right? Anybody who's been in the payment system and the process system knows the easiest way to find the fraudster is to stop payments
[00:42:12] and listen. Yeah. Cuz whoever screams is the one stealing. Yeah. Cuz my mother-in-law is not calling. I mean, come on. Your mother, 80 year olds, 90 year olds, they trust the government. They trust Okay, maybe it got screwed up. Big deal. They're not going to call and scream at someone. But someone who's stealing always does. So what happens is we need to get to so the people who are getting that free money, stealing the
[00:42:35] money, inappropriately getting the money, have an inside person who's routing the money. They are going to yell and scream. But real America is going to be rewarded because here's the key benefit of the doubt. Not one penny should stop going to we're the richest country on earth. Yeah. Here's the way I say it. I said, "We have we have a $6.5 trillion budget. We have $4.5 trillion of revenues." Yeah. Okay. We lose $2 trillion a year. We have a
[00:43:04] $29 trillion GDP, right? Which people don't understand and which I'll explain a little bit. And we have 36 trillion in debt. Yeah. What number didn't I say to a business person? What's our balance sheet worth? Right. Right. I say 500 trillion. Right. The president says a quadrillion. But at 500 trillion or quadrillion, 36 trillion, we're rich. We don't have to take one penny from someone who deserves social security.
[00:43:31] Not one penny for someone who deserves Medicaid, Medicare. What we have to do is stop sending money to someone who's not hurt, who's on disability for 50 years. It's ridiculous. And they have another job. And do we have to monetize our assets? We We need to be smart. That's all we need to be. And I'm going to tell you things that are just smart. They're not, oh my god, there's the most brilliant thing ever. This is just smart. There
[00:43:58] are so many smart things we can do. Like, you know, we'll talk about the post office, right? Think about this. The post office has 625,000 people who work there and they go to your house every day. You know what the census does? The census hires 625,000 people, trains them, teaches them, has interviews 2 million people, trains and teaches them, hires cars. How about this? You're genius. That's pretty smart, Howard. Right. Okay. Like
[00:44:21] obvious, right? But here's what it is. I'll tell you what I'm going to I'm really good at pattern recognition. Okay. Here's one like tell me 625 of one and I can point out 625 of another. This is the genius I bring to the government. Seriously, this is this is core fun. By the way, you're responsible for all the core data collection as well, aren't you? Isn't commerce responsible for generating a lot of the GDP for economic
[00:44:41] Oh, that's I get to talk about GDP and how I'm going to how I'm going to clean up the nonsense is in GDP. You know, I can explain that if you make a tank and someone buys a tank, that is GDP. Yeah. But a thousand people thinking about buying a tank, right, who take your tax money and I give it to them and they go, I wonder should we buy a tank or not? That's not GDP, right? You're saying government spending should not be
[00:45:00] counted in GDP. No, government spending to buy a tank, right, should be, right? Government spending that's nonproductive. Non-productive. This is so important. I don't think I don't think a lot of people realize this. How how much of GDP is nonproductive government spending? How about we do one thing? Yeah. G DP D means domestic. P is prod domestic production. It's not consumption. Right. If I go out and buy a Toyota, right? Right. That's not GDP.