[00:00:00] All right, we have a massive show for you today, besties, but it's not going to be our prediction show. We thought we were doing predictions end of the year, but we had so many amazing stories to cover in the news that we're going to do predictions next week. The first story is we have investigative journalist Nick Shirley on. He has uncovered in a breaking 42-minute video that went viral $110 million in potential fraud in
[00:00:26] Minnesota. It's part of $9 billion in overall fraud. and we've got him on the show here exclusively. This video apparently perhaps prompted responses from Cash Patel and DHS Secretary Christy Gnome who have sent agents in to inspect these facilities. Here's some sort of important context. These entitlement frauds in Minnesota have been going on for over 10 years. It's a 13 14 year old story. It started by an
[00:00:52] investigative reporter named Jeff Balon. launched his first investigation into this in February of 2013 at Fox 9 News, local investigative journalist. Uh, and after that expose, charges were brought in 2014 against a Somali woman and her husband. They skip bow. They never faced trial. Here's a 45se secondond clip from 2016 from Balon. >> Ali is facing numerous counts of theft by swindle and racketeering. She ran a
[00:01:20] daycare business and home healthcare company that catered to lowincome families. But former employees told the Fox 9 investigators back in 2013 that it was really part of a scam to collect millions in public subsidies. >> When I saw the bank account for the business, there were large Cath withdrawals on a continuous basis. >> Can I ask you a few questions? >> A year after our investigation, Ali was arrested and charged with billing the
[00:01:47] state out of about $4 million. >> Okay. Since 2018, Minnesota has seen 9 billion around 9 billion in entitlement frauds according to federal prosecutors. Just to give you guys a a concept of uh what that means, that's half of the total amount spent on 14 entitlement programs in the state. So, here's the direct quote from the federal prosecutor on the Minnesota fraud. The magnitude cannot be overstated. It's staggering.
[00:02:15] Industrialcale fraud. There have been over 90 convictions for more than $800 million in fraud since 2022. In 2022, 47 defendants were charged in a $250 million fraud scheme called Feeding Our Future that was supposed to feed hungry kids. Then up to 220 million was stolen in funds for kids with autism. Then 300 million was stolen in Medicaid funds meant to help people with disabilities avoid homelessness. So starting with that feeding our futures
[00:02:47] fraud in 2022, 82 of 92 people charged have been Somalian. Joining us right now, 23-year-old investigative journalist Nick Shirley. Welcome to the program. >> Thank you. It's been a crazy past few days out here in Minnesota. >> So I guess a good place to start is uh you could tell the audience a little bit about your background. uh when you got into investigative journalism. Obviously, you've got a YouTube channel.
[00:03:16] I watched some of your early videos when you were 16, 17 years old. I would say along the Mr. Beast vibes and then suddenly making a turn into politics specifically around immigration and some Vox pop uh kind of man on the street stuff. But maybe you could tell us a little bit of how you got into all this and how you got into this specific story. Yeah. So, I've been doing YouTube as far as I can pretty much remember
[00:03:42] since as I was as a sophomore in high school. It was just uh something I thought I could would be good at. So, I'd do YouTube videos and all I could do in high school was to do prank videos, sneaking into places, just kind of a fun stuff you can do on the weekend. And then as I've grown older and I've had other experiences, um I've matured and I've wanted to get more into more serious topics. And so, uh, as I've been
[00:04:05] able to go places and kind of see the world for what it is in different countries and whatnot and have different experiences, um, it kind of led me to get into this more investigative journalism content. And also, back in around 2020, you couldn't even make political content on YouTube without word without being demonetized. For instance, if you were to put Trump in a YouTube title or thumbnail on my channel, you would get demonetized cuz I
[00:04:30] was a smaller channel. So, it was impossible to make that sort of content and I was younger. I was about 17, 18 years old at that time. >> And now YouTube allows you to monetize. I noticed you had ads baked into the program like many podcasters. And you're not affiliated with any news source. And I to the best of my knowledge, you're not backed by any special interest groups. You're not backed by some rich billionaire. Where's the money coming to
[00:04:55] do this reporting from? and and just to confirm that with the audience. >> Yeah. Everything I do, I'm 100% independent and so I make my money off of YouTube, off of brand deals inside of YouTube videos. And if people want to donate money, they can do that. However, everything I do is straight from my own hands and I don't have any other people really working for me other than me, myself, my mom, and a few other editors.
[00:05:19] >> So, tell us about the origin of this story, and then I'll hand it off to the rest of the besties to do some follow-up questions. Yeah. So, I've been looking into this fraud for a long time. Since last June, I came to Minnesota to kind of do a video on what was happening with the Somali population as far as like how much it was increasing and and how certain towns have been uh the demographics have changed um and how
[00:05:40] churches are turning into mosque and how mosques are growing inside of Minnesota. I thought it'd be an interesting topic for people to see. And when I was there, a lot of people were starting to tell me about the fraud that was taking place. And I was like, well, how do I I just can't come and label everyone saying there's fraud happening. I need evidence. I need actual proof. And so I I've been doing my own
[00:06:00] investigation. And then a man by the name of David who's inside my YouTube video, he's been doing his own investigation for years as he's as he works next to some of these childcare centers and he's driven by and he's never seen a single child at any of these daycarees. And so he started looking into the funding and he was able to get the numbers of how much money these people were receiving from CCAP funding
[00:06:21] which is tax exempt and it was in the millions of dollars. And so I was I told him, &quot;All right, I'm coming to Minnesota. Let's go see what's happening on these daycarees.&quot; And when I got there, I was shocked to see when the first daycare we went to, all the windows were blacked out and you didn't even have the option to open the door. Everything was locked. So explain the the mechanics of the fraud just so the
[00:06:42] audience if they haven't seen this understand how these frauds are being played out. >> Yeah. So massive welfare frauds being committed. People are opening up these dayc carees, home healthcare clinics, you name it. anything that has anything to do with like health welfare or even just like helping people in general like with daycare or with uh healthcare, they're opening up these companies and then they're able to receive millions of
[00:07:08] dollars. And the state, for instance, I don't know if they're doing any checkups on these places because these places literally had signs that said learing instead of learning on their on their doors on outside. And what business is operating in a way where you can't even go inside or the windows are all blocked out? Very strange. >> Nick, let me ask you a question that I think a lot of people have, which is
[00:07:33] when your video, first of all, let me just say, took a lot of courage and it was well produced and you communicated some very complicated information in a very simple way, which I think is a tremendous skill. But the question that everybody asks is how do we know that you are right? And in traditional investigative journalism, there's a process that people follow and there's insurance that you have to get and then there's errors and omissions
[00:08:02] and you typically have to deal with lawyers. Did you go through that process when you made this? And do you think that it's an important part of what needs to be done for your credibility and for this piece to stand on its own? >> Yeah, I think everyone knows that fraud's been going on for years now. Like Jason was just saying, everyone knows that the fraud's being committed, but nobody's actually went to go see it
[00:08:25] firsthand. They know this fraud's been happening, right? And that's why it's been so hard for people to say, &quot;Well, this is happening.&quot; Or this is why mainstream media's had such a hard time to actually get exposure on the fraud because they've actually never gone and seen it firsthand or they've had the opportunity to have a platform where they can share on their own. Right. But did you check all the traditional boxes
[00:08:45] that the New York Times or other people? Because what I'm trying to get to is how do we make sure that then you're not attacked and that you're not discredited and that people say this process is faulty and he's mudslinging and how do we make sure that you're not sued into oblivion? >> Yeah. And to specific to build on that Shimoth the allegation has come out. Oh, you went on a Saturday. Oh, you went during Christmas. And I guess you could
[00:09:09] address that because now people are obviously vetting your journalism. Yeah. Well, it's on I went on December 16th is a weekday before Christmas break. So, there's that. And then, um, sorry, the question as far as like did I do the vetting and whatnot. The man who helped me like lead the investigation himself, David, he had all the paperwork from the capital. He had somebody from inside the capital leaking him the information. So,
[00:09:33] there was my like fact check, per se, was he had a source from inside the capital. That's how we were able to get the number specifically. Do you think that it's going to be important for you to have lawyers that help you navigate? Because like if you build on this, there's obviously more fraud in Minnesota. >> There's a bunch of stuff in our home state. A lot of people would love you and people like you to start looking in
[00:09:58] all of these crevices. But how important will it be that you have all of the legal eyes dotted, tees crossed here? >> Yeah, that's a good question. I haven't really thought too much about that because every I've never been in this position where you have hundreds of millions like I think over 500 million people saw that video just alone just from all the impressions aside from the main video getting 100 million 125
[00:10:22] million views, right? >> So yeah, that's something I definitely need to think about. But I think more than anything, I'm not trying to go in and I'm more so just giving people transparency from the outside where people can't see it when they're sitting from behind a desk talking about it. Right. Right. I wasn't trying to barge in any of these businesses. I was simply asking like, okay, like is it possible to enroll in ch a child into here? And
[00:10:45] they would say no. Like what daycare center doesn't have a paper for somebody enroll a child? So I think like yeah, I guess if I wanted if I was going to do defamation on specific people and stuff like James O'Keefe style, I know he's always having to lawyer up which I don't want to ever have to do. That's like would suck cuz that I hate getting I don't want to ever have to deal with that stuff. Are you done with Minnesota?
[00:11:08] Like, have you uncovered everything you need to uncover and now you're going to look at another state? There was a lot of traffic this weekend about Ohio, Illinois, California. What do you do now? >> Yeah. So, I've been making YouTube videos consistently for the past 104 days, and I'll continue to def show the fraud that's taking place here inside Minnesota. It's not like I only just do videos on fraud, but um I think just
[00:11:32] showing people what's happening inside the country is super important. And yes, there's a lot more fraud taking place here in Minnesota. And I do have a part two episode on a whole different segment of the fraud that is taking place within the the state of Minnesota. And like you said, a lot of people have reached out to me, whether it be California, Ohio, and uh at that point, I will have to kind of I'll be doing my research as
[00:11:54] well to then not have to be in a position where somebody can try and sue me. >> What does it make you feel, Nick, as an American and also as a young American? you grow up, whatever your belief system is, what do you think? Put aside the investigative journalist pardon, what do you think as just an American, as a young American >> about the fraud? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think it's very upsetting. I mean, so many of my friends and so many
[00:12:17] people are working. We're like, we're working so hard just to be able to get by. Like, I don't even have a friend that owns a house at this point in their life. And they're 23 years old. And we talk to our grandparents and they're all like talking about how they bought their first house. We're married. And it's like that's not even a possibility for most of us, right? And so when you see that people are making millions of
[00:12:35] dollars and not only is it millions of dollars, it's tax exempt money. They're getting it from CCAP funding, which is uh tax exempt, right? And so when we're working hard and we're paying anywhere from 20 to 50% of our money back into the hands of the government while people are just funneling money, it makes us all mad and it's not fair to anybody quite frankly. >> It's interesting. Freeberg, I know you're you're interested in the media as
[00:13:01] well, like I am. This story has been covered for over 10 years by local news. You came in and did this. It became essentially a national story. But when we did our research, we did find a New York Times story last month, but none of the CNN's of the world have actually covered this. So, there seems to be a little pocketing going on here, Freeberg. the local news covering it doggedly, uh, running gun journalists like
[00:13:26] yourself, Nick, doing an incredible job knocking on doors, but there's this vacuum, Freedberg, on the national level. Any thoughts on that? Well, Nick, I think one of the things that makes your content so compelling is that it is long form. When you watch 60 Minutes or CBS or whatever, they're cut down. They're sort of like segment pieces. It's seven minutes long. What's so great about your footage is you get the raw
[00:13:52] true experience. It really is what citizen journalism is meant to be and you and I have talked for a while. I think you know we talked months ago about some of the work you were doing in Portland cuz like I was asking all these questions like well what is everyone else in Portland up to cuz all the video from all the news stations was what's going on right outside that gate where the ice facility was and there was like
[00:14:15] 20 people going crazy but like what's the rest of Portland like? and you went out and collected that content. That's the sort of stuff that I think makes your work so compelling is it feels so real. There just isn't a way for a network news station or CNN to do that sort of work where you can sit down and spend 45 minutes looking at like the very real footage that you put out, which is awesome. Can I ask you a
[00:14:35] question? So, you grew up Mormon, is that right? >> Yeah. >> And did you do a mission? >> Yeah, I did do a two-year mission in Chile. Do you think that that prepared you like knocking on doors or engaging people openly in your missionary work to be able to do this? Because I can tell you I know so many journalists who would be scared shitless to go do the stuff you've done in New York City and Portland now in Minneapolis where you're
[00:15:00] actually going into these facilities looking people face to face. Like how did you develop that that capability? Was it rooted in your missionary work? I mean, I think that might come from a little of it, but I think being the youngest brother also really just always having to impress your older brothers and being the daredevil for him and his friends. Like, I just didn't grow up with fear. Like, it wasn't even a
[00:15:22] concept for me to go and do go do the bike jump when I was 5 years old, right? So, it's always been something that I haven't been afraid of and I've never been afraid of rejection as well. I used to do door cells and the mission you literally are just walking around trying to talk to people about Jesus for two years straight and you just get denied every single day and you're just hoping to have like a small sliver of success
[00:15:46] for what you actually do. And so that definitely helped. My mission more so taught me about the effects of mass migration because I would see so many people fleeing countries like Venezuela and then I came to the back to the US and I saw what was happening at the border and I was able to learn Spanish. But the I think just like my upbringing in general being the youngest brother and then also uh my morals from being a member of the Church