[00:13:52] true experience. It really is what citizen journalism is meant to be and you and I have talked for a while. I think you know we talked months ago about some of the work you were doing in Portland cuz like I was asking all these questions like well what is everyone else in Portland up to cuz all the video from all the news stations was what's going on right outside that gate where the ice facility was and there was like
[00:14:15] 20 people going crazy but like what's the rest of Portland like? and you went out and collected that content. That's the sort of stuff that I think makes your work so compelling is it feels so real. There just isn't a way for a network news station or CNN to do that sort of work where you can sit down and spend 45 minutes looking at like the very real footage that you put out, which is awesome. Can I ask you a
[00:14:35] question? So, you grew up Mormon, is that right? >> Yeah. >> And did you do a mission? >> Yeah, I did do a two-year mission in Chile. Do you think that that prepared you like knocking on doors or engaging people openly in your missionary work to be able to do this? Because I can tell you I know so many journalists who would be scared shitless to go do the stuff you've done in New York City and Portland now in Minneapolis where you're
[00:15:00] actually going into these facilities looking people face to face. Like how did you develop that that capability? Was it rooted in your missionary work? I mean, I think that might come from a little of it, but I think being the youngest brother also really just always having to impress your older brothers and being the daredevil for him and his friends. Like, I just didn't grow up with fear. Like, it wasn't even a
[00:15:22] concept for me to go and do go do the bike jump when I was 5 years old, right? So, it's always been something that I haven't been afraid of and I've never been afraid of rejection as well. I used to do door cells and the mission you literally are just walking around trying to talk to people about Jesus for two years straight and you just get denied every single day and you're just hoping to have like a small sliver of success
[00:15:46] for what you actually do. And so that definitely helped. My mission more so taught me about the effects of mass migration because I would see so many people fleeing countries like Venezuela and then I came to the back to the US and I saw what was happening at the border and I was able to learn Spanish. But the I think just like my upbringing in general being the youngest brother and then also uh my morals from being a member of the Church
[00:16:11] of Jesus Christ Latterday Saints. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't do any of that. So I feel like I have a advantage for compared to a lot of people as far as like my mind's always I'm not getting skewed with addictions or trying to go and do something else. >> Nick, are you still very religious? >> Yeah, I am. >> Sax, what's your take on this? And um the question I asked Freeberg, which you didn't get to, maybe you could take,
[00:16:35] which is this hasn't seemed to made the make the the national uh press, but it has been on the local and obviously it's on X. Maybe you could give your handicapping of the media sphere and Nick's role in it as you see it in 2025. >> Well, I think it's an indictment of the press. They haven't covered this and they still haven't covered Nick's video, which is now, like you said, a viral video with hundreds of millions of views
[00:17:01] and everyone can see what's happening. You basically have this huge multi-billion dollar fraud taking place. Yes, there were stories going back a decade like you said Jason, but they were isolated stories where they could be portrayed that way. And I think what Nick has done is show that the fraud is massive and in plain sight and no one bothered, no one cared enough to expose it. And you know, Nick, you did this by
[00:17:26] just going around to all these supposed daycare centers which are receiving vouchers from the government anywhere from what one and a half to $4 million per daycare center per year based on fictional enrollments of children. And these centers aren't even operating and they're collecting millions from the government. All told, I guess it's adds up to 8 to 10 billion. So this is taxpayer money that's being stolen from
[00:17:50] Minnesota that's being stolen by this Somali community basically. And I think the story's gone viral because it includes so many aspects of dysfunction. I mean, you've got the issue of illegal immigrants. Some of the people in the Somali community got here illegally. Some of them didn't. You then have these progressive judges who foolishly voided convictions of some of the fraudsters who were doing this. I mean it's just um
[00:18:20] classic example of suicidal empathy or something like that. So you have that aspect of the story and then you've got the political corruption. Again these are not isolated incidents. This is a a case where I think we have to see this as a system at work not just an example of like a few isolated fraudsters. There's some roundt tripping here where some of the funds that are going into the pockets of the Somali community
[00:18:41] through this fraud end up back in the hands of politicians. And the really extreme example of this is that Tim Waltz even changed the flag of Minnesota to resemble the Somali flag. I mean, he lowered the old flag and raised this new flag to that resembles the Somali flag, which shows the political clout of this community, which is why I think a lot of politicians turned a blind eye to what was going on. So, I just think you've
[00:19:07] got all the ingredients here of this story. You've got this suicidal immigration policy that we've had combined with massive government fraud with dereliction of duty and incompetence combined with political corruption. And that's why the story is going viral and has gotten hundreds of millions of views. So kudos to you, Nick. And of course, the way that they are defending themselves. Well, first of all, the press is trying to ignore the story as
[00:19:30] much as possible. But to the extent that they have to confront it, what they do is just accuse us of being white supremacy, that anyone who notices that this fraud is being perpetrated by this Somalian community, that somehow that must be racial animist, that's the only reason people care about or something like that. And so they've accused Nick. And that actually is the last element here, which is again this tired, worn out
[00:19:55] trope of accusing anyone who threatens this corrupt government machine of being somehow racist. Any event, let me stop there. Nick, let me get your reaction to all of that. >> Yeah. No, I love everything you said because it's so true, especially like for instance, they found a man here with $7 million he had committed in fraud and then the judge overturned it, right? And then Tim Waltz is calling people like me
[00:20:16] a white sup white supremacy. He says we're acting on white supremacy. No, Tim, it's millions and billions of dollars in fraud of hardworking motan people that's being sent who knows where. And so it's not like and then today I'm just looking at the media and people are it was the craziest thing. I get on there and people are starting to say all these like crazy allegations about me. I'm like whoa where are you
[00:20:40] guys? People have even came out say said I'm like a a pedto. It's like what? Like I literally just went and did the job that everyone's been wanting to see done for years, right? And I just brought limelight to everything, tried to make it as uh just a simple issue about fraud happening. >> Let's just be clear. You just went to these daycarees and just I I looked up the CCAP that you mentioned. It's the Minnesota Child Care Assistance Program
[00:21:05] is what CCAP stands for. And it's a state administered program, but it's funded largely by federal dollars to subsidize childare for low-income families. So, it's not just motans who are paying for this. It's all of us through our federal tax dollars. And I'm seeing a lot of follow-on commentators in other states now saying, &quot;Hey, you know what? In Ohio or in the state of Washington, we're looking at the
[00:21:29] government roles and we're seeing that there's over 500 Somali owned daycare centers.&quot; And by the way, that's just like one type of fraud or one type of very suspicious behavior, but you can start to see that people are starting to pull the thread here and they're seeing like where this fraud goes. And it's starting to raise questions about lots of other government programs as well. For example, in California, we have $24
[00:21:53] billion going to quote unquote homeless programs. And yet, the number of homeless people keeps rising. And you know, everyone knows it's called the homeless industrial complex. they can't pass an audit. The state refuses to even permit an audit. So, we know there's massive fraud going on in that program. There's massive fraud going on in entitlements across the country. And I think part of the reason why Nick's
[00:22:16] video has gone viral here is people can kind of feel that the whole country is really being eaten alive by this fraud and corruption. And it is a huge part of why we have such a huge deficit, why we have so much government debt. And it feels like finally someone's blowing a lid on it. And Nick, it feels like you're achieving what Doge set out to do. And I think there's no one feeling more vindicated right now than Elon Musk
[00:22:41] because literally some of the things that he was saying back in February, you have now proven true that there's huge amounts of of entitlement fraud. Some of that money that is stolen then goes to politicians who then either support the expansion of that system or turn a blind eye to what's going on. And some of this is even connected, I think, to voter fraud. So, you're talking about here stolen money maybe leading to stolen
[00:23:04] elections. I mean, it really feels like you've kicked this rock over and we're starting to see a bunch of nasty things underneath it. And what I think is really cool is that you're inspiring copycats. Now, some people have called this decentralized Doge where now, you know, hopefully we get a thousand or a million Nick Shirley's all over the country who start to show up and try to shine a spotlight on what's going on
[00:23:30] with all these government programs. >> Yeah, I think it's essential that people realize what's actually happening and realize that, like you said, like we are getting eaten from the inside. Like, why is our money going to these places? We we always talk about Tim WS was ranting about healthcare the other week. I'm like, well, maybe you shouldn't be giving hundreds of millions of dollars to healthcare companies that have
[00:23:50] nothing to show when you go to their business and all the other stuff that goes along with what you were saying. Like, yes, this like I think Elon's why it sparked Elon's interest is because it's physically showing people with their eyes, not just a contract. And it's sparked such con such conversation across the internet because it's something people can physically see and people are actually feeling inside of
[00:24:15] their communities. >> Nick, do you think that the fraudsters are going to get a little bit better at covering their tracks now that you've exposed them? Cuz I I feel like one of the things that was really amazing is you would just show up at these daycarees that, you know, you can see from the government roles are receiving millions of dollars. They call themselves a learning center, but they misspell the word learning. So, it's a
[00:24:35] learing center and it's these cinder block buildings like there's there's no reception. There's no one there. I mean, it's almost like they've made it too obvious. Then there were cases where you would have people that got busted a decade ago. The locations didn't even change. They just renamed those fraudulent businesses and they were literally operating from the same locations a decade later. I mean, it's almost like there was just no attention
[00:25:00] paid whatsoever to where this money was going. And I'm just I I guess the only thing I'm kind of worried about now is that with you blowing the lid off this thing is whether the frauders are just going to get better at covering their tracks. >> Yeah. Well, I think that they're gonna have to look into where they're sending all this money, right? Because they if they wanted to really confront this fraud, they could have just cut off the
[00:25:19] they could have just cut off the money and said, &quot;All right, one sec. Let's take a month. Let's figure this out.&quot; But no, they just kept giving more and more and more and they even started expanding it. For instance, how does a place just have an increase in autism? like how does that happen? Yeah, it start it made me wonder whether a lot of our statistics about issues like that like autism like to what extent are they
[00:25:41] manufactured because we're creating this huge incentive for people to create cases of autism of these like you know fraudulent healthcare centers and it does make me wonder like well can we trust any of the numbers >> just to be specific in the areas that you guys are talking about where they think there was fraud Medicaid claims for autism in Minnesota spike like 130x in 5 years. >> X what the heck X 130 not to 1.3. Oh my god.
[00:26:14] >> From 2018 to 2023 it went from 3 million to $400 million. >> It's probably the water. It's probably the water or vaccines. It could be anything. Who knows what it could be? It could be fraud. >> Jason, I have a question for you which is twofold. One, what do you think of what Nick did if you've watched the video? two, why are your former brethren trying to bury this story? >> So, I think Nick is doing the most
[00:26:36] fundamental act of journalism for which he should be lauded and is correctly being lauded, which is just go knock on a door, right? And asked the most simple question in the most unbiased way. Now, >> are there kids here? And can I send my kid here? >> You know, I I looked into Nick. I looked into your videos. >> Most basic could you get? >> Yeah. Incredible. And they failed test. They failed the most basic test. the
[00:26:58] most basic simple test and you know I looked into all of Nick's videos because I saw >> anytime you do something like this investigative journalism people will correctly and you alluded to this chumat in the beginning start to vet the veter right and I was like okay tell me everything about Nick Shirley let's look at all his Twitter feed let's look at his YouTube videos like who is this person why are they doing what they're
[00:27:18] doing and I watched Nick as you ask questions at a Bernie rally uh and uh some other events when you're doing your man on the street stuff which is also very brave because you can get your ass kicked. I don't know if you have security or not yet, but you're going to need it. Do you have security? >> Yeah, now I have to. >> Yeah, of course. So, this is brave stuff, but this is the core task of journalism is to get this primary
[00:27:40] information and let the viewer decide without bias. And we can criticize 60 Minutes and the New York Times and there there's plenty to go around, but if you look at the history of it, I think Nick, you've got incredible potential to sort of take the baton that you saw from that local newscaster on Fox 9 and keep building on that. And to your point, David, I think Freberg you made about uh crowdfunding and crowdsourcing this
[00:28:02] journalism, it's it's going to be very powerful in the future. If you look at how long it takes though to do this, these things take decades. So I think you got to stay on the story and if you look at the Catholic Church spotlight, the frontline documentary, you look at 60 Minutes and what they did with Big Tobacco, these things do take a long time. So you should keep your hooks into them and keep working it. The other thing I
[00:28:25] thought that's really interesting here is this could be the opportunity right now is everybody in the United States who is a taxpayer does not want to see fraud. They don't want to see waste. They don't want to see abuse. So although Nick, I I think your leanings are right. >> Are you sure? >> I am pretty sure that 90% of Americans don't want to see their tax dollars wasted. >> What if there's a group of people that
[00:28:47] would be okay with it even if they were told it was fraudulent, but it allows their side to keep winning? Yeah, I I that's like a conspiracy there. I don't think >> No, it's not a I'm just saying it's a boundary condition. I just wonder if you actually put it there that you would get 95% that says this is wrong. >> Yeah, I think you'll get 95% that will say it's wrong. But we'll see. And what I think could happen here is that this
[00:29:10] could be the issue that pulls Americans together that we could have consensus on, which is we don't want to waste our tax dollars. Putting aside the fact, Nick, that you're conservative, it doesn't matter. You're religious. It doesn't matter. What matters is the truth. And the truth here is there's massive waste, fraud, and abuse. And Elon saw it. Elon told us, he confirmed it. And he got attacked for it. Elon was
[00:29:32] 100% right. Everybody who attacked him, they may not have liked his tactics and how fast he was going and locking doors and turning off credit cards, his techniques, they may not have liked, but we as Americans can all get behind not allowing any more fraud. And we should not be increasing taxes into a system that is ripe with fraud. that I think everybody will agree on. And when all that fraud happens, it keeps us from