[00:52:17] No text you, Pete, which is there's some discussion about moving NASA under the Department of Transportation. Good idea, bad idea. Give us your reasoning. Well, let me think of it. To be honest, I haven't like deeply reflected on this. Um, at a selfish and nerdy level, it would have been amazing as Secretary of Transportation to be working NASA, too. Um, I think generally anytime you can have like one uh box or on an org chart where you
[00:52:51] where there's two, you know, as long as it's justified, I think there are some benefits to that. I mean, definitely right now the way that it let me put it this way. If we think the future of space is going to be more and more about commercial space, which is is clearly just as a matter of numbers what's happening. The mishmash we have now where you got NASA obviously leading government-driven space missions. You got the Department of Transportation which actually already had responsibility over some things and we
[00:53:15] did commercial space licensing. We wound up having to radically accelerate how that worked. Uh because that actually comes under the FAA um largely because you have to go through the national airspace to get to space, right? And there's actually parts of it that sit with commerce. So it would make sense to disentangle that one way or the other, whether it's inside of DOT or whether you configure it a new way. I mean, I do think that Washington in general, my
[00:53:39] part is definitely guilty of this, is too attached to all of the like structures that we have right now and the existing or charts and existing habits. And you know, one message I'm trying to get my party to accept is, you know, if and when we get another chance, a lot of the things that he has burned down just aren't coming back the way they were, why would we put them back the way they used to be if it was full of problems anyway? So, I don't have a really deeply considered answer for you, but I wouldn't be hostile to a change
[00:54:04] just because it's a change or just because it came from this administration. This is my last question. There was a report that came out today. I think the No text amount of miles driven per day by Whimo is about to pass 250,000. We have Tesla with cyber cab and robo taxi. These things have a material ability to prevent drunk driving and prevent vehicular deaths. What do you think should be done? Should we let this play out at this exact pace? Is there a responsibility in from the
[00:54:35] federal government? Do you wish you had done more to accelerate this? Tell us about autonomous driving and its role in society. So, I I think that there's the potential to save a huge number of lives. You know, we talked earlier about the incredible standard of aviation safety, right? Zero fatalities per billion better. It's the opposite on roadway safety. Nobody talks about it. I we had a plug door blow out of an airplane and we we reconsidered our whole oversight
[00:54:59] framework because somebody could have gotten hurt that day. Meanwhile, every day 100 to 150 people die on our roadways to car crashes and vehicles driven by humans. I mean, it's enough to fill a 737 every day. It's on par with gun violence. 30 40,000 people a year. So, human drivers have a murderous track record. It's a little bit different when we talk about professional drivers who have incredible I mean I met truck drivers who'd have, you know, two million miles with no uh crashes or
[00:55:29] accidents. But just as a general rule, most of us the average driver thinks they're safer than the average driver. And the average driver stands a shockingly high percentage chance of getting somebody killed. So, you know, I think we're at the point where at least some of these technologies right now already are safer than human beings and that's only going to increase and improve. And the the irony of it is, you
[00:55:53] know, even if a handful of highly publicized uh negative incidents will will really change public acceptance. So my approach was and they have. Yeah. Yeah. So my approach was we we do need to be conservative as a safety regular to make sure it's safe. Not because I don't believe in the technology, but because I do because I think if people see it unfolding safely, uh there's going to be more acceptance. But are there things we could or should do or
[00:56:17] could or should have done to accelerate AV adoption? Um, I think the answer is yes. Like the the simple reality is we we can't tolerate like it's no big deal human drivers killing more than 100 people a day on our roads. This is a perfect segue for my final question. We've had a grand debate occurring in our industry about job displacement. Uh Amazon announced yesterday, I'm sure you saw 30,000 white collar jobs to be
[00:56:41] eliminated. UPS today something around 40,000 people and there was a leak in the New York Times that Amazon was planning on eliminating 600,000 job wrecks for the future and not hiring them because they're so convinced that robotics will do that. We all know AI is going to be the biggest change of our lifetime. I don't think that's the debate. The question is um what will job displacement and new job creation look like this time? What does Pete Buddhajed think? Do you think that
[00:57:12] we have a serious issue on our hands or do you think we'll be able to navigate it? And then what's the government's role in it when you're president? What will it look like if you inherit this chaotic AI job displacement potential? Yeah, I'm I'm seriously concerned about it and and part of that's from growing up in the industrial Midwest. Like, you know, we were told I grew up in Northern Indiana, uh, a lot of auto industry
[00:57:38] supply chain companies there. And in the 90s and 2000s, a lot of trade and automation, but the truth is mostly automation came in. And uh everybody was told, you know, don't worry too much about what you're doing today. The pie is going to get so much bigger that everybody will be better off. And the thing is, the pie did get bigger, but the rest of that promise didn't come true. And people were pissed. People were pissed because they lost their
[00:58:03] income, but also even after they got their income, if if they went through a training program and got another job in a field that was growing, but it wasn't who they thought they were, it wasn't connected to their their sense of identity or belonging, then you continue to have a displacement that's not just economic, but but but really deeper than that. And I actually think a lot of that kind of leads directly to the populism and the nationalism that you see in this
[00:58:27] administration and this in this political moment. So uh and the thing that really haunts me is you know as much as any auto worker or electrical worker I know like their sense of belonging and identity you know very much depends in many ways on being an autoworker or an electrical worker. That's even more true for most white collar workers. I know people who work in law or or software or you know um uh
[00:58:53] you know you see what's happening in radiology just to take one example what's happening in medicine that's really changing because of AI and the the displacement that could come with that I think is enormous and I don't think we're prepared. Yeah. I don't know you know I don't want to get into prediction games about which things will happen in which order but I think it's clear that it's big. It's clear that
[00:59:13] it's fast. It's coming. It's accelerating. And my big worry is that if we're already at a level of concentration of wealth and power that no republic has ever survived, is this going to be a development that just makes wealth and power even more concentrated in even fewer hands? I don't think it has to be. I think that's where, you know, good policy can make a difference. But I think if we just sleepwalk into it, that could happen. It could be even more dabiliz. The thing that you just said is
[00:59:43] the key. It doesn't have to be. It requires very smart, thoughtful legislation. I think that we had some really idiotic legislation under Biden that President Trump and David Saxs have largely unwound these diffusion rules, the gatekeeping, all of those things, Pete, would have seen us lose to China. Just to be very clear, as a technologist who's in the middle of it, who is investing and building, what I'm telling you is those historic
[01:00:08] rules were terrible and dumb. and they had one or two companies who would have basically had all the spoils and the rest of us would have been standing on the outside looking in. That's no longer the case. We can run the race now. But I think what you said there is very critical. It doesn't have to be a winner take all or winner take most outcome. Well, and to me that's, you know, that's not just a question of tech policy. Like that's a question of
[01:00:31] Well, this is by way and this is, by the way, I just want to be clear. The reason why it was likely under Biden is because it was so difficult to actually talk to him. he wouldn't talk to anybody. The difference with Trump, just so it's clear, is that he'll talk to everybody. He'll make his own decision, but he gets the broad tapestry of everybody's feedback. The danger of that Biden approach is that when one or two people are allowed in and everybody else is
[01:00:54] shut out, and you can't even find a way of just proposing ideas or explaining how it's going to be, you get things like the Biden diffusion rule. So, just as something to think about, I think being open and being available to people is a really good way of running the country. That's one thing I definitely believe in. If you win, Pete, you going to forget us and not come back on the pod and you won't invite us to the White House or if you win, can we still can I get an invite to the White House?
[01:01:17] I would love for this not to be our last conversation. Our friends at Poly Market, I'm sure you know uh all about these uh prediction No text markets and how good they are. Looks like Gavin AOC oddly in second place and then yourself in third place right now. Gavin obviously is running up the hill. Who knows if he takes the arrows first, but it looks like you're in a pretty good position here. What are your thoughts here on the early um indicators
[01:01:44] of who's connecting with the sharps over at Poly Market? Well, you guys don't strike me as folks who'd be content with a 6% return, but got to get those numbers up, Pete. Maybe a day, Pete. Maybe a day. Well, I mean, what do you think about Gavin coming out just strongly and saying, "Hey, I'm running. Obviously, I'm running. He's he's been pretty clear about it. Do you think that's smart savvy move or is that a crazy move three years? I don't know. I mean, you know, one interesting thing about what the current
[01:02:15] president did is I if I remember right, he didn't even wait for the midterms uh in order to announce. So, you know, it feels like the timelines keep shifting. I'll tell you like I'm in no hurry to be in the middle of presidential politics. Obviously, it's something I care about. It's something I have done uh already once before in 2020, but you know, this year, this is the first year in in about 15 that I haven't been uh in office or running for office, and I'm kind of
[01:02:39] enjoying it. I mean, I'm I'm working hard supporting candidates I believe in. We have a a pack uh and and I travel a lot and speak a lot, but uh you know, there there will be a time for those kinds of things, and I'm not uh uh I'm not going to try to rush. You support mom Dami? Did you did you support him? Did you come out publicly for him or you have concerns? I'm not getting directly involved in that race uh or endorsing or anything like that. You're gonna you're gonna dunk the
[01:03:02] globalize the inifat bullet. I mean that is the craziest obviously that's that's a that's a problem. Uh you know he's got a lot of he's got a lot of views that I mean it's no surprise or secret that he is further left than I am in the Democratic coalition. That said, you know, uh I was a a 29year-old mayor that a lot of people wrote off and and uh didn't take seriously uh and was able to get big things done. So, you know, I
[01:03:26] expect that he's going to win. Socialist experiment in the what was at least before the greatest city in America and one of the greatest cities in the world. Well, uh you know, the thing about winning is you get a chance to uh find out very quickly uh how good your ideas are and whether they'll have the results you have in mind. And you know, that's something that I expect that he'll win and then we'll all get to see. Yeah. I mean, it's it's going to be interesting to see when that 54% tax
[01:03:52] hits like if people are like, you know what, Miami and Texas look pretty great. You know, maybe I'm going to bounce. All right, listen. Pea Judge, uh, thanks so much for taking the time. We'll have you on again. Uh, great to talk with you and, uh, we appreciate you coming on the program. We'll see you all next time. Byebye. Same here. Good day. Great job. [Music] I'm going all in.