[00:39:20] you've got economic populists, right, who's who who are in many ways to the left of even even left of center in some weird ways on on trade and some uh issues like that. And then you got white nationalists, right? And I don't know that they can coexist for long if they're not held together by the awe of or fear of, you know, the personality of Donald Trump. Uh and you know people keep imagining maybe what if we had a
[00:39:46] third party and you know I look at other countries that have it's not it's not unusual in a lot of other modern countries to have four five six seven parties. In some ways it feels on its face like that would make more sense in the US but I I think the reality in practice is anytime somebody tries to go off and start a third party it just it just winds up screwing it up for one of the other two and we're right back where it started. Pete, do you think that Donald Trump made the right decision to
[00:40:07] No text close the border? And if not, why not? I think that he is right to draw attention to the problem of the border and that it is uh it is important to have a secure border. I don't believe it was true that it was exactly open before. Uh I think it is functionally closed now, but I I would agree that the last administration uh didn't do enough and didn't do enough early enough. Yeah. Yeah. And why do you think Biden looked the
[00:40:35] other way? What was the strategy? Was there a strategy? Yeah, I think what happened was he was really looking to Congress to do it. He came out of Congress. He was a creature of Congress and thought, you know, Congress can forge a bipartisan since, you know, there's actually a bipartisan agreement among the American people on what to do, right? Which is what most people believe, what I believe, which is
[00:40:53] let's make it harder to come in illegally and easier to come in legally and and to get legal if you're not. I mean, that's where most people are most country. Yeah. And that's where most of the space for compromise has been on the hill. And yet, you know, I think it was the '8s last time we had an actual bill to fix it. So, I think he, and this is speculating, I I never really, you know, was in the middle of the immigration side of things, but I think he felt like
[00:41:17] the way to do this was to get things done in Congress, he he felt that, you know, he'd managed to get the infrastructure bill done, IRA. Um but what's interesting is when he finally gave up on Congress uh when it was clear that we just weren't going to get very far and meanwhile you had had that that exe set of executive orders that came late in the term that had a major effect on the number of illegal crossings. So you got to ask yourself if that executive order that happened toward the end if that had been done in year 1,
[00:41:44] year two, would we be in a different place? Now of course we're on the other extreme. I mean, we got we got citizens who just have an accent or look brown getting picked up sometimes getting detained without access to a lawyer for a frighteningly long amount of time. And that's citizens, let alone other people who, you know, maybe they shouldn't be here, but they also shouldn't be brutalized, right? And I think one reason you see the pendulum swinging on
[00:42:08] on this is is we're seeing just how extreme it's gotten at a time when again I think the only way forward really is a kind of a grand bargain where we bring together the the the the people who believe in these simple realities that we've got an economy and a society that exerts a pull that actually needs more people like for our demographics and our economy to work then there is room in the kind of legal pipeline to come in.
[00:42:32] Just to clean this up, Pete, like if you if it were up to you, would you reopen the border or would you maintain the Donald Trump position right now of okay, now it's closed, now let's figure out this grand bargain, as you say, keep more precise by what we mean. I mean, if you mean like having it be difficult, at least as difficult as it is now, to cross illegally. I think that's it's a good thing for it to be difficult to cross illegally. Um, but again, I think calling it open then or closed now,
[00:42:56] you're talking about a lot of different overlapping things. Obviously, there are a lot of things about Trump's immigration policy I think are wrong, destructive, possibly illegal, too. I mean, if everybody has consensus that the border should be closed and it should be orderly and legal, uh, you know, great. It's 80% of the country. Um, and then the majority of the country doesn't like what we're seeing with ICE agents without badges wearing masks. That's the majority of the country is uncomfortable with this. A large
[00:43:19] percentage of the moderates who voted for Trump, at least this is what the surveys are saying, people are not comfortable with this. So, I'm curious about what you think the motivation is, and you can go into conspiracy corner if you want. It's allowed here on this program. We can speculate, but the conspiracy corner for Biden was he wanted to let a lot more people in in order to build the Democratic base in order to get voters. Okay, that's one
[00:43:45] theory. Now, the theory here is Trump is doing these violent deportations, tackling people, spending a lot of money while doing it. Um, why why is Trump doing it this way? Why does Pete think he's doing it this way? I I I think he thrives on a politics of fear. I think chaos is good for him. I think he thrives on chaos. Uh I think when you see images of uh people getting beaten up or you know what what he used to call American carnage like anything that validates that basically the worse
[00:44:18] it it's a weird thing but the worse it feels to be in this country the better off Donald Trump is whether he's running for president or whether he is president and sending troops marching into the streets. Can I just say as the only immigrant right now on this podcast who immigrated here legally, I feel much safer and better under a Donald Trump presidency than I ever did under a Biden presidency. Just want you to hear from my mouth for what that's worth.
[00:44:43] Do you feel safer about the fact that a Latino doctor crossing the street in Washington DC uh is getting hassled or harassed because they're brown? I don't think that I've heard that. Now, okay. So, you're not aware of any case in which a US citizen who is like but you're No, but but I will tell you, for example, after 911, you wait. You're on a podcast commenting about immigration. You have some level
[00:45:05] of awareness. Let me let me tell you after 9/11, for example, for years, I had SSS on my boarding passes and I was pulled over constantly and people probably thought that I was a Muslim hijacker. So, I know what it feels like to be harassed. And what I'm telling you categorically is I feel safer in this presidency than I have ever felt. And I'm just letting you know that. This is just my lived experience. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think I'm glad you feel safer. I'm worried
[00:45:29] about how most Americans feel. Well, I mean, I think we're all aware that people are being picked up and they're being racially profiled and their Fourth Amendment rights are being suspended here. And let me put it a different way. Has it crossed your mind that if right now they started by going for people who are illegal and then they've started roughing up people who are citizens but who are speaking up against the
[00:45:52] administration that even if you feel safe now in a country where that sort of thing can be done where people can you know where even comedians could lose their jobs for criticizing the government. Does any part of me wonder if that might ever come for you Pete? It did come for me. Here's what I'm trying to tell you. after the Patriot Act passed after 9/11, I had to come to terms with the fact that even as a legal immigrant into the United States
[00:46:17] that I was going to get extra searches, I was going to get stopped. And it happened for six years. I came to terms with it. I put my head down and I kept working. But that didn't mean it was okay, right? It was a law that was passed and people felt for whatever reason that there was an amount of racial profiling that could happen then. And what I'm telling you is every immigrant class at some point has felt this. My point is it made things
[00:46:46] safer in the aggregate. And what I'm telling you now is what is happening now makes cities safer. It makes places safer. If you go to Washington DC, it is the safest it's ever been. And you hear this consistently from many many brown and black people. I guess what I'm telling you is if you take the amount of money that it costs to do a full-scale military deployment in American city and you just used it on
[00:47:11] uh you know improving funding for the police and mental health and a whole lot of other things, you probably get a pretty good result that way too. But I know there are a lot of people and I I I have heard you know personal direct examples of people who are in some cases US citizens or in other cases here illegally who no longer think it's even okay to go outside who ask people to run errands for them because of the atmosphere that has been created in Washington DC. So it's definitely not safer for them.
[00:47:38] No text Let me ask you a different question which is I really want to get some insight into what it was like for you to work in the Biden administration. We've had the sea of tell alls coming out, Kla Harris's book, KJP's book. We had Joe Mansion on last week and one of the things that he said is that it was not that Joe Biden changed, but that the staff were nuts and that Ron Clay was effectively a gatekeeper and if
[00:48:05] you had reasonable proposals, they would go into some black hole and die. Can you give us a sense of what it was like to work under Biden and the the positives but also the negatives? Give us a fair representation. Yeah. And and in the spirit of fairness, I should say this is the only time I've outside of military, it's the only time I've ever worked in the federal government. So I can't benchmark, you know, to compare one white house to another or one president to another. But
[00:48:29] I'll tell you what my experience was like. There's a high level of ambition trying to get big things done quickly, especially in the first two years when there was uh felt like there was that opportunity to uh work with both houses of Congress to make it happen, including just a ton of energy going into well among other things spending time with folks like Joe Mansion trying to make sure that that we held together that that coalition to do things like the
[00:48:53] infrastructure law. Um there were calls I agree with, there were calls I disagreed with. Um, there were also a lot of times when it looked like something wasn't going to happen and then somehow it happened. And that was where I I do think it helped to have a president who spent as much time as he did in the Senate because, you know, it really felt like the infrastructure bill was dead. We forget this now cuz cuz it happened and it's kind of hard to imagine it was any other way, but you
[00:49:18] know, it was proclaimed dead many, many times in that summer of 2021 before it got done. So these moments of snatching uh uh victory from the jaws of defeat, you know, the word gatekeeper gets used a lot for White House staff. I don't think that's unfair. I would also say though that I don't say that's new. Um you know, the gatekeeper is often the the kind of other word you use for a chief of staff. Was he into cognitive decline or when
[00:49:44] did you first realize he was in cognitive decline, I guess, would be the better question, or suspect that he wasn't, you know, up for the job. You could feel that he was growing older. I mean, I think we all saw that. Uh, I think my experience and obviously, you know, I wasn't at the White House every day. Most of the time I was I was out in the field doing transportation work. But, uh, you know, what I would
[00:50:04] see if I was at an event was the same as what you'd see, you know, watching TV. Um, I think the debate was a real turning point. Yeah. I mean, the debate was a turning point, right, where you just saw I think everybody saw what everybody saw. On the other hand, you know, when we were something like that happen, h how does somebody who is so in cognitive decline get put up into that situation because it's clear that they knew many months before that this was not going to end
[00:50:31] well. How did they get to that point? How insular were they? And then I want to talk about the uh selection of Kamla without having a primary. So yeah. Yeah. I think the short answer is there there's not really a they that makes that decision, right? people give advice, but there's a he like one person decides if he's running again. One person decides at the end of the day on the campaign strategy and is accountable for that. Uh so, you know, I think I I
[00:50:55] can't imagine what exactly was going on in the inner circle. I wasn't I wasn't part of those conversations, but um yeah, I I do think that, you know, by the time it got to that debate, uh it was just very clear that it wasn't serving him well, wasn't serving the party well. Okay. So now you don't want to go to that point. But but just as the last thing about the speedrun, there was no primary. Yeah. And you know, we were speculating on
[00:51:17] podcast like why not run a speedrun? Just have the six or seven candidates, including yourself, just do three weeks. This would be like blockbuster television. Were you in favor of the speedrun or not? Was there discussion of that? We're hearing that Obama and maybe some other people wanted to have a quick primary. And what do you think the outcome would have been? Would you have had a shot at uh winning? Yeah, there's there's a lot of chatter of that. Um,
[00:51:41] and I think in hindsight, we we've obviously got to ask since the outcome of what did happen was not good. I think anyone serious in our party has to say, okay, what if we'd done that? And you could argue that it would would have led to I don't know, but you could argue it would have led to a different nominee. You could also argue it would have led to the same nominee, but that she would have been stronger, right? I mean, if if
[00:51:59] she had become the nominee by prevailing over another half dozen people who wanted a shot, presumably that kind of sharpening that that happens uh would have served her well in the general. And and let's remember that that's actually more normal, right? Like most countries don't drag out their their presidential process for more than a few weeks. Let's move to a different more tactical question. This is my last question for
[00:52:17] No text you, Pete, which is there's some discussion about moving NASA under the Department of Transportation. Good idea, bad idea. Give us your reasoning. Well, let me think of it. To be honest, I haven't like deeply reflected on this. Um, at a selfish and nerdy level, it would have been amazing as Secretary of Transportation to be working NASA, too. Um, I think generally anytime you can have like one uh box or on an org chart where you
[00:52:51] where there's two, you know, as long as it's justified, I think there are some benefits to that. I mean, definitely right now the way that it let me put it this way. If we think the future of space is going to be more and more about commercial space, which is is clearly just as a matter of numbers what's happening. The mishmash we have now where you got NASA obviously leading government-driven space missions. You got the Department of Transportation which actually already had responsibility over some things and we
[00:53:15] did commercial space licensing. We wound up having to radically accelerate how that worked. Uh because that actually comes under the FAA um largely because you have to go through the national airspace to get to space, right? And there's actually parts of it that sit with commerce. So it would make sense to disentangle that one way or the other, whether it's inside of DOT or whether you configure it a new way. I mean, I do think that Washington in general, my
[00:53:39] part is definitely guilty of this, is too attached to all of the like structures that we have right now and the existing or charts and existing habits. And you know, one message I'm trying to get my party to accept is, you know, if and when we get another chance, a lot of the things that he has burned down just aren't coming back the way they were, why would we put them back the way they used to be if it was full of problems anyway? So, I don't have a really deeply considered answer for you, but I wouldn't be hostile to a change
[00:54:04] just because it's a change or just because it came from this administration. This is my last question. There was a report that came out today. I think the No text amount of miles driven per day by Whimo is about to pass 250,000. We have Tesla with cyber cab and robo taxi. These things have a material ability to prevent drunk driving and prevent vehicular deaths. What do you think should be done? Should we let this play out at this exact pace? Is there a responsibility in from the
[00:54:35] federal government? Do you wish you had done more to accelerate this? Tell us about autonomous driving and its role in society. So, I I think that there's the potential to save a huge number of lives. You know, we talked earlier about the incredible standard of aviation safety, right? Zero fatalities per billion better. It's the opposite on roadway safety. Nobody talks about it. I we had a plug door blow out of an airplane and we we reconsidered our whole oversight