[00:00:00] No text There are certain trillion dollar ideas that the private sector just won't do because it doesn't pencil or because of whatever market failure is there. That's where you need government. First of all, the the debt path we're on is not sustainable. That I think identity has become too central to how my party thinks. My big worry is that if we're already at a level of concentration of wealth and power that no republic has ever survived. Is this going to be a development that just makes wealth and
[00:00:28] power even more concentrated in even fewer hands? All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. All right, everybody. Welcome back to the All-In podcast interview series.
[00:00:53] Last week, we had Joe Mansion on. This week, Pete Buddha Jesus here. Everybody knows Mayor Pete, born in Southbend, Harvard, road scholar, uh, McKenzie, US Navy, and, uh, of course, ran for president and was the transportation secretary under Biden. Welcome to the program, Pete Booty Judge. How are you? Good. Thanks for having me. Pleasure. Uh, meet Shamath Poly Hapatia, a former Democrat who rewrite his support of your party and now is uh a
[00:01:23] Republican and really the spirit of this program is to just have a candid discussion. We like to get into the details and so I thought I wanted to start with your perception of No text entrepreneurs, technologists, etc. I was watching a clip of you on um Bill Maher and you said, "Hey, you know, these these libertarian, science-based folks in Silicon Valley, they made a very practical decision. These are rich men
[00:01:50] who have decided to back the Republican party that tends to do good things for rich men. And these rich men include Tim Cook, uh Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk. These are people who have been part of the Democratic party for a very long time. huge donors to the Democratic party and they all made this sort of flip. Do you think it was just pragmatically based upon the desire to have less regulations, a better business environment to personally make more money or do you think there were other
[00:02:21] things at work with the loss in 2024? Well, I don't think you can reduce it to any one thing, but I certainly think that's part of the story. Uh look uh uh it's no secret that Republican policies tend to favor people who are wealthier. Uh and a lot of people who drifted away from the Democratic party, at least the ones who are getting a lot of attention. Like how could these business figures, investors, billionaires have gotten away from from Democrats and gone to Republicans might be kind of a you know
[00:02:52] dog bites man story. like not something that's wildly complicated. If you look at the fact that, you know, Democrats have been extremely concerned about wealth and income inequality and you got a lot of very very wealthy people. I don't think it was just that. I mean, I think uh there are a lot of things that that kind of combined at once. But, you know, for a lot of my friends who are scratching their heads saying, "Wait a
[00:03:14] minute, these are folks who are from the tech and science world. How could they back a president or administration that's been deleting references to science and kind of censoring science at least anytime that climate is concerned? A lot of these guys are libertarian. How could they be on board with the uh you know the administration that is uh sending troops into streets and has uh uh really led a crackdown on freedom. That's kind of something out of the
[00:03:38] fever dreams of my conservative and libertarian friends back when we were, you know, arguing about politics over beers that I never thought I would see happen. uh these folks, some of these folks are gay and how can they be backing an administration that's, you know, really uh assaulted uh LGBT rights? And you know, if you just go down the list, there's a lot of things that are counterintuitive uh about some of these Silicon Valley
[00:04:00] leaders who flipped in many cases flipped from being very very active Democrats uh to backing Trump. And you know, maybe there's an intuitive answer to that counterintuitive thing, which is that many of them feel their short-term business interests or personal financial interests are better served by Republicans. I get that. I would I would counter, as I think a lot of people in Silicon Valley who are still Democrats would, that look, a healthy business
[00:04:27] environment, you know, you don't want to be overregulated, but you also want to make sure you're an environment with rule of law. You want to be in a place where it's safe to say scientific truths out loud. you want to be in a place where somebody can't impose their interpretation of their religion on other people. I, you know, I have a whole counter to that. Uh, but, you know, I think that's the kind of swirl that we got into. Uh, definitely just in
[00:04:49] those short years between 2020 and 24. Do you think that there was censorship under the Biden administration for things like scientific truth? Let's just focus on COVID for a second and the back doors that it seemed that the Biden administration had to places like Facebook and places like Twitter to just suppress scientific thought and debate as you just talked about. So, this is an amazing example of some of the false equivalencies that I've seen thrown around out there. So yeah, I
[00:05:12] I would acknowledge I think a lot of folks would say that uh you know it came really close to the stove some of the times when the administration was trying to make sure that you know bad information or misinformation wasn't being pushed uh into the kind of public health conversation and was engaging social media companies that were trying to you know be responsible and do the right thing and and there might be moments that that you know they got that
[00:05:35] wrong or went too far. But right now, we're in a moment, right, where the president of the United States doesn't like being criticized by a comedian and has the head of the FCC, which regulates corporations that are trying to buy TV networks, go out and threaten them and say, you know, you're we can do this the easy way or the hard way. I mean, that is a whole different level of censorship. Not to mention just the way they've gone through like every government website, right, and deleted
[00:06:04] anything that could accidentally be a reference to climate change. So, you know, I'm worried about the false equivalencies here. You could definitely say there were moments under the last administration or any administration where we could argue that that having fidelity to to free speech, you know, you should have done this way instead of that way or these edge cases should have been different. But but I am nervous that anybody would equate a president
[00:06:27] trying to direct the destruction not only of journalists but of comedians that he doesn't like with public health authorities in a public health emergency that killed a million Americans doing their best to try to make sure that people got good public health information. Let's talk a little bit about where the rubber meets the road, No text which is tax policy. And I think a lot of what we've seen in this back and forth to add to why the Democrats lost
[00:06:51] all of these amazing entrepreneurs and capitalists who build these amazing companies that create all the jobs in the tax base for this country. Two tax proposals recently, New York City with Mandami and I don't know if you've come out and publicly supported him yet, but he's proposing 54% tax for the top earners there. Here in California, we uh have the floating of a bill to charge a wealth tax of 5% on
[00:07:16] billionaires. At a recent Mandami rally, they were chanting tax the rich. And Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, who I think are far left of you, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, are saying, "Hey, ban the billionaires." And we have this sort of movement that being a billionaire is in some way immoral or unethical. So, let's start with some brass tax here. Would you support, and obviously you're going to run for
[00:07:42] president again in 2028, and you're one of the lead candidates. Would you ever support a wealth tax? In principle, maybe. Yeah. I mean, you rightly said, you know, folks like Bernie uh are to my left. I don't know the details of the state and local proposals you just mentioned, but those sound on their face like they're further than I would go. Uh but look, in reality, we tax across a variety of things, right? There's income tax, there's payroll tax, there's property tax. Wealth tax would be kind of along
[00:08:11] the lines of a property tax. And the thought, of course, is that you've got a lot of folks who become incredibly wealthy. And importantly, the way taxation works now, less and less of the way the wealthiest people accumulate their income is actually booked as income, right? And this is why you have these stories of, you know, multi-billion dollar corporations or multi-billion billion dollar individuals
[00:08:34] somehow paying an effective tax rate that's lower than a teacher or a firefighter. And I think most people get that that's wrong. So I guess my overall take is, you know, everything has a balance, everything has limits, but if if you're asking me the question, are the wealthiest people in America right now paying too much tax or too little tax? I would say the wealthiest are paying too little tax. and whether you
[00:08:57] adjust that through income tax, whether you adjust that through, you know, something like a wealth tax. And there's a lot of ways to do it. Uh I think what's important is that it's fair, that it makes sense, and and that you do it in a way that that can make sure that the people who are spectacularly rewarded by our system are contributing to it without being so extreme that that uh you know, you're you're you're crushing wealth creation. What is the responsibility of the US government in your eyes with the tax
[00:09:24] receipts that they get? How do we understand that money is being spent appropriately and well versus pet projects or pork barrel spending or frankly just waste and grift. Where is that line? And give us some examples of how you would make sure that as tax receipts went up, accountability went up with it. Yeah, I think that's that's super important and and people's willingness to pay taxes depends on some level on their, you
[00:09:52] know, sense that they're getting good value for their money. So, I I cut my teeth as a mayor. We didn't we couldn't uh, you know, print more dollars if we wanted to. As the city of South Bend, we had a cash budget, had to balance it every year. If we took on debt, we really had to think hard about how we were going to pay on that debt. We made sure that any time we're asking people to be paying revenue into the city, they
[00:10:16] know what they're getting for that. Whether it's police service or parks or trash pickup, I don't think that's the worst metaphor to think about how things should work at the national level, too, right? We we should believe that we're getting good services, good infrastructure. That was obviously what what I worked on when I was uh at the federal level as as Secretary of Transportation. We should get good national defense and all the other things that we, you know, as a country
[00:10:39] are How do you how do you make sure that it's not wasted? Like I'll give you an example. You had billions and billions of dollars allocated to you from the infrastructure and jobs act to deploy charging infrastructure, right? And as of this year, there's only a few hundred of these charging stations. It's been pretty much an abject failure. Uh that's not true. And and I'm really glad you raised that because it's
[00:11:02] actually one of the biggest red herrings we had to deal with. So this is a program to get EV chargers deployed by 2030. The thought was, you know, by 2030, we think about half of the sales or we were hoping about half the sales of cars in the country would be EVs. Now, in order to have that work well, we're going to need more chargers. The market does a good job of delivering chargers in a lot of places, but there were other places where we found it was
[00:11:26] lower income or it was more rural. It was more spread out and it just wasn't going to pencil for the private sector to do to do it, right? So, uh we had a fund uh called NEVI. uh I can't even remember what the acronym was, but the point was it was like you said about $7 billion uh to buy down the difference to uh subsidize or just outright build those chargers in places where they were needed. And we made a couple of choices
[00:11:50] uh that we knew would mean that it would take longer, but we were okay with that. One of them was to have it led by the states. So instead of sitting there in Washington saying where all the chargers ought to be built, we send the funding to the states. We let them set up their own program. And importantly, we let them set up their own programs differently. So, you know, we were going to dictate what the optimal subsidy was in Wyoming compared to West Virginia or whether you even do it through a subsidy
[00:12:13] or whether it's owned and operated by the state. We took we took a step back on that, let the states innovate, even if that means it's going to take a while for them to polish the program, knowing that that meant most of the chargers would go in in 2026, 2027, but well ahead of 2030. Now, the second thing, this is really important, too. We made a conscious decision to insist that the Chargers be made in America. Now, when
[00:12:35] you do that, you're deciding that it's going to take longer. I'll just admit that because just buy them off the shelf from China would be dramatically quicker. We thought that was worth it because we thought it was important to have a US-based industry with, you know, American workers, ideally union electrical workers, uh, making and installing these chargers. Again, we knew that if if the goal was to get them all done by like 2023 or 2024, we wouldn't have had the luxury of doing
[00:13:02] that. But since we thought most of the charges would be needed by well, by 2030, we were okay with that. Now, here comes Washington politics, right? And somebody gets a hold of the numbers. They see it's a seven or eight billion dollar program and then falsely try to make it look like we spent the seven or eight billion dollars already on the handful of chargers that that they already managed to build first even though we never thought most of the charges would be built even during our
[00:13:25] first term. And that's where the Washington game comes in, right? Take something that I mean the jury is still out, right? The program's not done. We'll see how the Trump administration does in completing the program. But, you know, you can't really say whether it was a success or a failure until the program's been run. But they move the goalpost. And I'm not challenging you that like there's waste that there's uh
[00:13:43] bad things that happen in and and and government spending that I don't like. But what's your what's your best guess in general? For every dollar that gets given to the United States government by US taxpayers, what actually lands in productive programs that benefit Americans versus what gets leaked away? What's your best guess? Is it 50 cents of every dollar, 10 cents of every dollar, a penny, 90 cents? Like what is
[00:14:09] your best guess? you've been in the bowels of these organizations. So my experience in transportation is that most of it goes to very good use. I mean if you just break it down uh it goes to things that keep the aviation sector operating safely. It goes to things like highways, roads and bridges. That was the biggest slug of funding that we had in the infrastructure package. uh and when you know the general or the government accountability
[00:14:32] office or or the inspector general by the way institutions that Trump is demolishing right now but the organizations that do the auditing and really dig in on a bipartisan basis um often in terms of outright fraud you know they're going to come in a number that's well below 1% but but but you know I've also seen my own sense as effective no effectively this is this comes to the other part I was going to say I mean I think about my time in the military for
[00:14:57] example you know there was a building. I think it was Leatherneck. Maybe it was Kandahar, but I think it was Leatherneck. When I traveled out there, there was a building that had taken years to go up. I think it was like $30 million. And just before they were about to activate it, uh, they tore it back down. I mean, it's just a complete boondoggle. And and we see stuff like that happening for sure. We see cost escalations on a lot of projects. So,
[00:15:21] it's not, you know, it's not the same as fraud. I mean that's the like under 1% but it's still a huge waste if you have a project cost 1% or 10% or sometimes 100% more than it should right I mean by definition every penny it takes to build something more than what it was actually required is wasted and I do think there's a lot of that I think government gets in its own way with procedure just explain to us as a secretary how