[00:26:21] over the last uh well, nine years now under Trump, one uh 45 46 Biden and now again with Trump, we just hit 38 trillion. So, it seems like we're adding 2 trillion a year. What's your take on the sustainability of this? First of all, the the debt path we're on is not sustainable. And that's one area where you're right, neither party has covered themselves in glory. And it's an area where I would part with some in my
[00:26:46] own party. I think for too long you've heard the message from Democrats is basically debt doesn't matter like or there's no such thing. And there was a moment when this felt a little more credible. Some of the evidence at as of a few years ago uh put a lot of wind in the sales of what was called modern monetary theory. Uh I think a lot of that looks different now. It looks different. And then you had the
[00:27:09] And then you had the Republicans, right, who say that debt matters but then uh act the exact opposite. Now, look, as as a good Democrat, I could point out that I would argue there's a difference in terms of what history empirically has shown us in terms of the return on investment you get when you raise debt to fix roads and bridges and other productive infrastructure versus if you blow up the debt in order to give massive tax breaks to the wealthiest
[00:27:35] people in the country. because that has just never generated the growth that you know I mean the laugher curve has collapsed empirically and it just doesn't work that way right so I could quibble over if you're going to do debt what's the best thing to do with it and I would argue the best thing to do with it is education healthcare investing it make sure kids don't get lead poisoned investing it in ports and roads and not investing it in uh uh you know in tax
[00:27:59] cuts for extremely wealthy people who who didn't need them and in some cases weren't really asking for it and were perfectly productive in fact history would say more productive at times in history when they were paying more taxes in the US. But leaving that partisan fight aside, I do want to come back and agree with you again that that where we are right now is not sustainable. That contrary to what some on the left would say, there is such a thing as the debt. It does matter and we need to make sure
[00:28:24] that what we're doing going forward is more consistent with with some basic fiscal responsibility. What is the fiscal responsibility? I mean, I hear all these, you know, political speak over and over again from you guys, but I never hear anybody say, "You know what? We got to tighten our belts, folks. We're going to have to cut unemployment. We have to cut these uh and we're going to have to raise taxes here. We have to make cuts here." I don't ever hear any of you come up with
[00:28:47] like a plan that actually would pass mustard with any of us in the business community who have to run companies and make sure they're solvent. This does not seem like you have a plan or anybody else has a plan. And it's is it because it's so unpopular that you can't just say, "Hey, it's there's going to be some austerity here and it's going to be painful and there's going to be more taxes and that's going to be painful and then you don't get elected." Is that the issue?
[00:29:12] I literally did put out a plan which I balanced every single spending back when I was running for president in 2020, which feels like another lifetime. Every single thing that I proposed spending on, uh, I also proposed to pay for and explained what would have to happen tax-wise in order to do it. And again, that's just those are the habits that I built as a mayor who had to do my budget in cash. So, look, it's not like it's a completely unsolvable problem. There are measures that we got to take to reduce
[00:29:38] things like the cost of providing healthcare, which is one of the biggest uh uh sources of pressure on uh Medicare, Medicaid, you name it. Not just getting people insured, but the actual underlying cost. Same with pharmaceuticals. And then there are things you got to do on the revenue side. Like I'm I'm sorry, but like we can't just slash a trillion bucks from from what the wealthiest people are paying again and again and then call this a sustainable budget. The trillion dollars of cuts. What is
[00:30:03] that specifically that's being cut? Oh, you mean the on the on the tax side? Yeah. Well, start with OBBA, right? Uh and then TCGAA, too. Like we know that the vast majority of the benefits of those tax cuts went to the wealthiest. Uh, we could say the same about the broader pattern of cutting taxes going back to I mean I guess if you look back over the 50 years. I mean why do you think that the American entrepreneurial class was more productive in terms of annual
[00:30:28] productivity growth back when taxes were higher? How do you measure that? Well, I don't know. Productivity growth and income taxes. I mean those are two pretty simple measures you could use. And as I'm sure you know which era well look at the 70s and 80s, right? 60s7s 80s. look at GDP growth, productivity growth, and tax rates. I I'm sure you're aware that those growth rates were higher and the tax rates were higher, too. I'm not saying there's no
[00:30:51] correlation where like if you overt tax, you'll eventually get less productivity, but you know, if you look at where we are in the spectrum between too far this way and too far that way, it's not like we're doing this in a vacto data. But I just want to make sure. You think the BBB was a giveaway to rich folks? Like no taxes on tips, extending the Trump tax cuts that disproportionately affected middle-income folks. Those are those are giveaways to rich people.
[00:31:16] Do I think the majority of the OBBA tax cuts went to rich people? Yes. And how do you define majority? Like dollar tonnage of depreciation or actual dollars in pockets of humans? I mean, either way you look at it, right? It's important how you look at it because it's actually if you're low income uh dollars in your pockets is going down when you account for what they've done with the subsidies. I mean remember this is I
[00:31:41] don't care how subsidies which subsidies can you name me a measure can you name a measure by which I'm ask I'm asking you I'm asking the politician I don't know yeah I don't have a line item breakdown in front of me what I'm telling you is that it is not terribly contested like if anybody listening to this podcast feels like opening up a window and looking it up for themselves uh just to figure out which one of us is right it's
[00:32:04] not terribly contested that the majority of the benefit of TCGA and OB OBBA went to wealthy people and it's definitely not contested or I would say generally not contested that OBBA represents one of the largest transfers of wealth from lower income people to upper income people in global history. How do you measure that? You can measure it in terms of wealth before and after. You can measure it in terms of the incidence of the different forms of taxation. You can measure it in a total package that accounts for subsidy as well as as benefit. I mean
[00:32:35] any number of ways. But again, if you measure it a different way, I'd love to hear it because I don't I don't regard this as something that's deeply contested, but it sounds like you have a measurement in mind that's different, and I'd love to run with it and look it up so I can see where you're coming from. And we definitely cut corporate taxes and personal taxes because of TCJ. Yeah. Right. I mean, that was And to be clear again, because the LER curve turns out to be we did
[00:32:59] not just grow our way out of the deficits that created. Right. Let me ask you a question about the inner workings of the Democratic party. No text I'm sure you've been asked this a hundred times, so sorry for us being the 101st, but in Kla Harris's memoir, she points in part to your identity as a reason why you weren't considered as her running mate. Can you explain to us the role of identity in Democratic politics?
[00:33:23] Both perhaps you on the way in when you were nominated for secretary and then maybe on the way out when you were not considered as a credible VP candidate. Let's just say I would love for identity to play a less central role uh in the politics of our country and and the politics of my party and and not just because I might have been passed over for uh for an opportunity, but just because I think it is it has really
[00:33:48] dominated so many people's thinking in a way that makes it harder for us to build a message across identities. I mean, don't get me wrong, I I don't think it I don't think it makes sense to pretend that identity doesn't matter. I don't think it makes sense to pretend to be colorblind. I also don't think it makes sense to allow that to explain everything, which is one of the habits that's formed, I think definitely on my party's far left, that that made it harder for us to get through, especially
[00:34:13] when you have a lot of people whose interests are shared. I'm thinking about the economic interest of poor people and low-wealth people in this country, for example, who are black, white, and of of every ethnicity and identity and gender, of course, who maybe didn't hear a unifying message that was speaking to them as a group because it felt like my party was it was like a salad bar, like here's something for your group and here's something for another group and here's something for another group and
[00:34:37] it didn't add up into a story. Now, I would argue that Trump practices a kind of identity politics, too. a sort of a white identity politics that uh makes people feel like they are encircled by the other that that that immigrants are sort of an invasion. I mean, we can go down that road and I often have, but uh the more straightforward way to answer your question about my party is that I think identity has become too central to
[00:35:01] how my party thinks. How have they reacted? You know, you you took a pretty firm line on Israel Gaza. You took a pretty firm line on transgender folks in sports. tell us about the dynamics of taking those positions inside the Democratic party. Famously, our party has a lot of different voices within it. And so, you know, some folks uh if you are not saying the leftmost thing, uh they're just done with you. But I think a lot of others believe in the idea of politics
[00:35:32] as as building a coalition and and pulling people into a bigger picture. and and I'm going to say some things that uh you know won't be in conformity with what every activist group in my party wants to hear. That's okay. That's that's part of it. How do you navigate the the necessary extremism maybe that's required then to get out of a primary process? Well, this is the classic issue with going from primaries to generals, right?
[00:35:56] you you are pressured to say one thing to appeal to the base in your party and then you wind up if if you're not careful saying things that make it hard for you to have credibility in a general election when you're trying to uh paint a picture that the broadest number of people possible can can see themselves in. That's nothing new. But one thing that has happened more and more and more is that that's happening in more and more races. So the presidency is always a little bit like this, but the presidency is also the one that gets
[00:36:24] painted in the broadest strokes because it's it's a campaign for the whole country and it's all the different jostling around all the issues and all the groups all boiled down into two people running for one office. But where I think this actually hurts us the most is in Congress. So we got 435 seats in the House. Last time I checked, less than one out of 10 of them is considered to be seriously competitive at best.
[00:36:47] like less than 40 are actually competitive, which means in nine out of 10 races, the primary is pretty much it. So, you never even have to bother thinking about whether some stance you took in the primary is going to make it harder for you to work across the aisle or or harder to win people over or bring them together in the general because these districts are so gerrymandered, right, that uh that all you have to worry about is your right flank if
[00:37:11] you're a Republican uh or your left flank if you're a Democrat. That's where I think it hurts us the most. the Democratic Party. Really two parties right now. The classic Democratic Party, I'll call it the Clinton Obama party, you know, hey, we're socially liberal, but we're not like absolutely crazy and insane. We we don't necessarily uh need to advocate to have trans kids get surgeries and uh when they're 12 years
[00:37:37] old and 14 years old and all the stuff that's now become, you know, illegal in most modern countries. Is it two parties now? is I'm watching Manny and like that group go, "Hey, ban the billionaires, more taxes and socialism, and here's all the handouts. We're going for it." And then there's guys like you and you know the I would say the the more Clinton era, Obama era kind of moderate Democrats now is is kind of how I'd frame it. And then can those two ever
[00:38:07] coexist in the same party? I think both parties have their contradictions and that's definitely true for my party. Uh, I mean the way I view it is one of the biggest problems we have as a society is this level of inequality we've hit that like historically there's no evidence that any republic can reach this level of equality to hold on to it and continue to be a republic. And so the question is what do you do about it? And you've got obviously a socialist left that says the
[00:38:32] answer is socialism. Uh you've got uh Republicans who tend to say this is not a problem at all. And then you got where I think of as the center or at least what I would like to be the center of my party, which is saying, "Yeah, we've got to do things. We got to lean in. We got to use uh the tools of the state, not in a socialist way, but uh in a way to try to have things be more balanced in this country." Um is there a contest between
[00:38:55] kind of the center left and the far left or however you want to characterize it? Sure. But then, you know, I mean, today's Republican party is a coalition of normal Chamber of Commerce business Republicans, more of the kind of tech Republicans who to me are more libertarian, even though it puzzles me that they're for uh such uh dramatic government control over society right now and Trump. But whatever. My point is you have you have normal business Republicans, you have technibertarians,
[00:39:20] you've got economic populists, right, who's who who are in many ways to the left of even even left of center in some weird ways on on trade and some uh issues like that. And then you got white nationalists, right? And I don't know that they can coexist for long if they're not held together by the awe of or fear of, you know, the personality of Donald Trump. Uh and you know people keep imagining maybe what if we had a
[00:39:46] third party and you know I look at other countries that have it's not it's not unusual in a lot of other modern countries to have four five six seven parties. In some ways it feels on its face like that would make more sense in the US but I I think the reality in practice is anytime somebody tries to go off and start a third party it just it just winds up screwing it up for one of the other two and we're right back where it started. Pete, do you think that Donald Trump made the right decision to
[00:40:07] No text close the border? And if not, why not? I think that he is right to draw attention to the problem of the border and that it is uh it is important to have a secure border. I don't believe it was true that it was exactly open before. Uh I think it is functionally closed now, but I I would agree that the last administration uh didn't do enough and didn't do enough early enough. Yeah. Yeah. And why do you think Biden looked the
[00:40:35] other way? What was the strategy? Was there a strategy? Yeah, I think what happened was he was really looking to Congress to do it. He came out of Congress. He was a creature of Congress and thought, you know, Congress can forge a bipartisan since, you know, there's actually a bipartisan agreement among the American people on what to do, right? Which is what most people believe, what I believe, which is
[00:40:53] let's make it harder to come in illegally and easier to come in legally and and to get legal if you're not. I mean, that's where most people are most country. Yeah. And that's where most of the space for compromise has been on the hill. And yet, you know, I think it was the '8s last time we had an actual bill to fix it. So, I think he, and this is speculating, I I never really, you know, was in the middle of the immigration side of things, but I think he felt like
[00:41:17] the way to do this was to get things done in Congress, he he felt that, you know, he'd managed to get the infrastructure bill done, IRA. Um but what's interesting is when he finally gave up on Congress uh when it was clear that we just weren't going to get very far and meanwhile you had had that that exe set of executive orders that came late in the term that had a major effect on the number of illegal crossings. So you got to ask yourself if that executive order that happened toward the end if that had been done in year 1,