[00:13:25] first term. And that's where the Washington game comes in, right? Take something that I mean the jury is still out, right? The program's not done. We'll see how the Trump administration does in completing the program. But, you know, you can't really say whether it was a success or a failure until the program's been run. But they move the goalpost. And I'm not challenging you that like there's waste that there's uh
[00:13:43] bad things that happen in and and and government spending that I don't like. But what's your what's your best guess in general? For every dollar that gets given to the United States government by US taxpayers, what actually lands in productive programs that benefit Americans versus what gets leaked away? What's your best guess? Is it 50 cents of every dollar, 10 cents of every dollar, a penny, 90 cents? Like what is
[00:14:09] your best guess? you've been in the bowels of these organizations. So my experience in transportation is that most of it goes to very good use. I mean if you just break it down uh it goes to things that keep the aviation sector operating safely. It goes to things like highways, roads and bridges. That was the biggest slug of funding that we had in the infrastructure package. uh and when you know the general or the government accountability
[00:14:32] office or or the inspector general by the way institutions that Trump is demolishing right now but the organizations that do the auditing and really dig in on a bipartisan basis um often in terms of outright fraud you know they're going to come in a number that's well below 1% but but but you know I've also seen my own sense as effective no effectively this is this comes to the other part I was going to say I mean I think about my time in the military for
[00:14:57] example you know there was a building. I think it was Leatherneck. Maybe it was Kandahar, but I think it was Leatherneck. When I traveled out there, there was a building that had taken years to go up. I think it was like $30 million. And just before they were about to activate it, uh, they tore it back down. I mean, it's just a complete boondoggle. And and we see stuff like that happening for sure. We see cost escalations on a lot of projects. So,
[00:15:21] it's not, you know, it's not the same as fraud. I mean that's the like under 1% but it's still a huge waste if you have a project cost 1% or 10% or sometimes 100% more than it should right I mean by definition every penny it takes to build something more than what it was actually required is wasted and I do think there's a lot of that I think government gets in its own way with procedure just explain to us as a secretary how
[00:15:48] much control do you have in stopping that waste So if you see it, so I'll give you a specific example. In 2023, there was some pretty incredible outages in the FAA. We've all now learned that we have an incredibly brittle air safety infrastructure that needs to be upgraded. You saw that in 23 there was outages all the time. What do you do to stop that? And when you see the waste, how do you stop it? You know, that was an example where we needed to invest, right? So, it's that tough situation and needing to swallow
[00:16:20] hard and go before Congress and the taxpayer and say, "Look, we need more funding for this." But that's what we did. And by the way, this is one of the rare areas where I agree with my successor who's done pretty much the same thing uh to make sure we got the funding to upgrade the technology. Now, this is one of the few audiences might be nerdy enough that that I can geek out a little bit and talk about the big
[00:16:39] upgrade to the communications backbone that that we were doing. It was to go from TDM to IP from from copper to fiber and to I think a lot of people would be astonished to know that you know something as important and theoretically modern as our aviation system uh is working on TDM. Uh so that obviously had to be upgraded. We launched a contract. Verizon is the contractor. You know, obviously a multi-year multi-billion
[00:17:04] dollar IT contract when you have to have, you know, not even 59s but like billion to one uh chance of anything going wrong 24 by7 by 365. You know, it's challenging and it takes a while. But, you know, that's one of the reasons why we felt a lot of urgency on that particular issue. But again, there's two ways of looking at this, right? Both of which are true. One thing is to look at the system and say how can the system
[00:17:27] not be more modern like we need to make better use of the dollars that go into the system to have more up-to-date communications infrastructure to have uh more controllers uh who are both well equipped and well-rested and FA's got to do better on that. The other way to look at it is consider the civilizational achievement that is aviation safety in this country. So it's easy to grumble and I grumble and more than grumble. I mean, I got pretty upset with a lot of things about how aviation works as a
[00:17:54] passenger, which is why we pushed airlines so hard on on passenger protections. But, you know, just in the four years I was secretary, we had about 4 billion passenger implants. So, 4 billion times somebody got on an airplane, right? Um, and zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of that 4 billion. In other words, what this kind of clunky, imperfect federal government has achieved is a standard of safety on afford a form of transportation that involves being propelled through the air
[00:18:23] almost at the speed of sound by flammable liquids miles above the ground. And you know, frankly, you and I are one of us is more likely, not to be flip about it, but one of us is more likely to randomly die of natural causes during this taping than to be involved in a commercial airline fatality. Let's hope it's Jason. Wow. Well, I was about to say, I mean, it is like in some places in our some places in our infrastructure, we're incredibly blessed. And I'm wondering as, you know, now you're in your 40s,
[00:18:53] you've seen a lot of the world, whether it's your military service or or, you know, just being a mayor of a small town and then, uh, obviously working in a cabinet position. How has your view of free market dynamic solving problems versus the government solving problems evolved if at all? Because when we talk about these problems, you look at what's happening with space. We now can get to space for, you know, 5% of the cost than
[00:19:20] we used to. Thanks to Elon Musk and SpaceX, we have superchargers and chargers everywhere thanks to Tesla and a number of other folks putting them out there, Charge Point, etc. when it comes to putting fiber into rural areas, which the FTC was trying to do, they were going to spend5 to $25,000 per home. And now we have Starlink and their competitors. Again, back to Elon, which your party decided under Biden, you wouldn't even invite the guy to the EV summit. So,
[00:19:50] well, let me talk about that, but we'll I want to park that to the side because we should probably talk about what happened there. But let's forget that cuz I want to I want to mention that because when you when you know I I'm a I'm a moderate but voted Democrat about 65% of the time and Republican a third of the time. When I look at it, I just can't understand how the Democratic party hates us so much. Hates entrepreneurs and that's how they feel. But that's how that's how Silicon Valley
[00:20:14] feels. We'll talk about whether you want to deny it or not. But it feels like hate entre like I don't think most Democrats do. I I but I I know what you mean about the vibes and we should get to the piece about about Elon particularly but but but on the piece you're on the substance of the question you're raising. Yeah. I think it's really important to think of this as not like should it be government or should it be the private sector but like which parts should government do and
[00:20:39] which parts should the private sector do. So to me like the classic example is just the smartphone right. Um, I cannot imagine that a smartphone designed by the federal government would be a pretty thing or that an app designed by a matter of fact having been in the military and and dealt with I guess you could call them apps like some of the kind of uh software that that that you have to deal with even if it's done by
[00:21:03] contractors. It's kind of done in a way that you can tell was designed by the government and and and it's not pretty. Um, on the other hand, you know, when you talk about capital allocation, the federal government literally invented the internet, right? So, there's things there's certain trillion dollar ideas that the private sector just won't do cuz it doesn't pencil or because of whatever market failure is there. That's where you need government. That's things
[00:21:25] like basic research. That's things like filling in gaps that especially on network effects like you know broadband, EV charging networks, that sort of thing where the bulk of it can be done quite well by the private sector, but there are pieces that just don't click unless you have unless you have federal involvement. And that's the attitude we tried to take on things like EVs. Like I never thought that we were going to, you know, create a government EV or that you even needed the government to make sure
[00:21:48] that a transition to electric happened. But we did believe that for it to be made in America, for it to happen as quickly as we wanted, and for it to reach people who maybe couldn't afford those those initial buyin costs who we really wanted to help out, you know, that's where there's a role for policy. That's where there's a role for funding. What I get confused though, Pete, is like on the one hand, you're saying the government should set up these clear moonshot objectives that advance America
[00:22:13] for itself and relative to other countries. But then the other side is that if you do too well achieving those objectives, we want to go and take a bunch of that away from you. How do you reconcile that? And how do you think it impacts the the motivations of young men and women who want to learn and excel and put themselves at risk but also want to believe that if they put themselves at risk and then they are rewarded that they've earned those rewards.
[00:22:38] Look, uh I love people being entrepreneurial, creating something and doing well by it. I mean that's but to a certain basic idea only to a certain level like beyond a certain point of entrepreneurship if you create a monopoly. Yeah. If you create a monopoly I might not like it. If you hurt other people I might not like it. If you concentrate power into your hands to an extreme extent I might not like it because that's just that's just not American. But in general if we're
[00:23:02] talking about taxation I just want to make sure people who are really well off do their part to pay into a system that has helped them to thrive. uh because uh you know that's what it takes for the next generation to do well and that's what it took for all of us to do well. I mean let's just assume you're president. You No text get trillions of dollars of receipts. Mhm. I'm going to guess the party line that you have to take as Doge was bad. Okay,
[00:23:25] fine. What is the version of Doge that you would implement so that Great question. We could figure out what percentage of that dollar that we're giving you is wasted and stop it. Yeah. So, I would love in theory a department of government efficiency that was actually about government efficiency. I think that would make tons of sense. Uh, it's what I tried to do again when I was mayor. We took apart the small government that I was in charge of about a $300 million operation
[00:23:50] and put it back together and found that it could be radically more efficient in many ways. And we need to do that at the federal level. We need to How much money did you take out from that 300? Uh, we we used it better. I would put it that way. So, uh, you know, we didn't I mean, there were areas where we were able to kind of have, uh, uh, have a certain, uh, budget line item shrink, but in a city where the average per capita income was 18 or $19,000 per person when I came in, uh, we weren't
[00:24:17] handing that over in tax breaks to wealthy residents. We were putting it to other use on uh, on public safety uh, and fundamentals like that. But look, again, I agree that the doge we could have could do a lot of really good work. It could find duplicative regulations. it could find cases where we could move from inputbased to outputbased uh evaluation of our programs. In other words, instead of saying like this is a meaningful program because how many billions went into it, uh figure out how
[00:24:45] much value came out of it. But the Doge we got was one that couldn't even count that put uh information sometimes that was wrong by three orders of magnitude on its own website then erased its own information because they didn't believe in the transparency. The doge we got sent an email to every air traffic controller in the country during an air traffic controller shortage and suggested they quit being an air traffic
[00:25:09] controller and get something quote more productive to do in the private sector only later on to be told actually uh that was a mistake. The Doge we got apparently wasn't supposed to send that information all the air traffic controllers. Whoops. the Doge we got fired people in charge of making sure our nuclear weapons were safe and in charge of making sure that bird flu didn't spread and then whoops you know tried to hire them back in a race. So yeah, there's a huge difference between the doge we got and the doge we could
[00:25:35] have had. But if you're talking about in principle should we unleash like really smart talented people with an outside in perspective and a free hand to evaluate what is working and where we're not getting value for our money in government. like you and I would be on in violent agreement that that's a good idea and there's no better place to find some of those opportunities than the things that the federal government does
[00:25:59] because it just does or because there was a good reason once upon a time but that reason has expired or maybe the reason was not good to begin with. Can we go to debt maybe um as part of this? I don't know where you were going to go chas but I think maybe I wanted to I wanted to go to the inner workings of the Democratic party but go ahead to debt and then we can go yeah and then that's a good segue. I was just going to point out, you know, we've we've added about $2 trillion in debt
[00:26:21] over the last uh well, nine years now under Trump, one uh 45 46 Biden and now again with Trump, we just hit 38 trillion. So, it seems like we're adding 2 trillion a year. What's your take on the sustainability of this? First of all, the the debt path we're on is not sustainable. And that's one area where you're right, neither party has covered themselves in glory. And it's an area where I would part with some in my
[00:26:46] own party. I think for too long you've heard the message from Democrats is basically debt doesn't matter like or there's no such thing. And there was a moment when this felt a little more credible. Some of the evidence at as of a few years ago uh put a lot of wind in the sales of what was called modern monetary theory. Uh I think a lot of that looks different now. It looks different. And then you had the
[00:27:09] And then you had the Republicans, right, who say that debt matters but then uh act the exact opposite. Now, look, as as a good Democrat, I could point out that I would argue there's a difference in terms of what history empirically has shown us in terms of the return on investment you get when you raise debt to fix roads and bridges and other productive infrastructure versus if you blow up the debt in order to give massive tax breaks to the wealthiest
[00:27:35] people in the country. because that has just never generated the growth that you know I mean the laugher curve has collapsed empirically and it just doesn't work that way right so I could quibble over if you're going to do debt what's the best thing to do with it and I would argue the best thing to do with it is education healthcare investing it make sure kids don't get lead poisoned investing it in ports and roads and not investing it in uh uh you know in tax
[00:27:59] cuts for extremely wealthy people who who didn't need them and in some cases weren't really asking for it and were perfectly productive in fact history would say more productive at times in history when they were paying more taxes in the US. But leaving that partisan fight aside, I do want to come back and agree with you again that that where we are right now is not sustainable. That contrary to what some on the left would say, there is such a thing as the debt. It does matter and we need to make sure
[00:28:24] that what we're doing going forward is more consistent with with some basic fiscal responsibility. What is the fiscal responsibility? I mean, I hear all these, you know, political speak over and over again from you guys, but I never hear anybody say, "You know what? We got to tighten our belts, folks. We're going to have to cut unemployment. We have to cut these uh and we're going to have to raise taxes here. We have to make cuts here." I don't ever hear any of you come up with