[00:29:54] before we were anything and that's a big part of, I guess, our touring business. And, um, and there's vastly better economics there. So for us that is the case. >> So then can we talk then about the transition to investing, how you got into it and how this part of your b your lives helped you kind of make that transition. >> Yeah. I mean Drew kind of touched on it. I mean I think we've always had a really positive relationship generally with
[00:30:17] technology. I think we leveraged it in very clever ways throughout our career like the growth hacking Drew was talking about. our friend James created this like conference technology called Tilt that we used for touring data you know and this is like pre-cloud pre sort of all this backend data that was available to us or is available to us right now um and so I think that like established sort of a positive relationship and
[00:30:39] honestly like our foray into venture was about as cliche as it gets like we were you know lucky to be a successful artist we had this you know distribution and marketing platform via the chain smokers and thus we were sort of like catnip for consumer brands and you know I think you know that was an interesting exciting time for us to start investing but I think what really struck us and and resonated was like the relationship with
[00:31:02] founders and the ability to like add value back into the businesses and I think that's what caught us off guard instead of kind of treating it like this like passive revenue opportunity um we wanted to be hands-on and and like sort of take matters into our own hands and then also like I mean I love creative people I think it's so amazing to have this you know career in music but there's something inspiring about
[00:31:23] working with an entrepreneur that's like putting it all on the line, sort of going 24/7 towards this like pretty, you know, big goal. And I won't lie, like more water companies is not what the world needs. And, you know, we were like meeting great founders like Brian Chesy and Drew Houston and Michael Cybel and the Con brothers and you sort of got to ask yourself, you're like, you know what? Where do we want to be spending
[00:31:44] our time and money? Like, you know, most of this stuff probably won't work out. at least let's invest in things that we think are like truly interesting could actually have a positive impact on the world. I remember like personally I invested in like the series like G of Uber or something like some the final round and uh and I thought it was like the smartest coolest thing I ever done. I made I've made like 25 bucks uh on
[00:32:06] that investment uh to date. But like that to me was like the sort of thing that we wanted to be a part of in the future. Um and I think that led us down like a path to you know institutionalizing our access. becoming you know really great partners to you know companies in cyber security AI infra deep tech um and taking it you know incredibly seriously >> how did you learn to assess your selection process so you know these
[00:32:29] things are coming in you've not seen a cyber security company before I'm assuming the first time you saw one >> you know how do you start to make these choices >> yeah I mean I think like on some levels that was the big question it was like we definitely have an interest here I think like the most important piece was like we're going to show up and we're going to be good partners like I'm not going to do the traditional like you know song
[00:32:48] and dance to get what we want and then sort of disappear into the fray. But I also agree like we weren't super clear on like what does a cyber security company need. But I think what was interesting is after speaking with a ton of founders that we've you know been lucky enough to build relationships with it felt like the things that were keeping them up at night and challenging them as they built their modern business
[00:33:07] in the modern present day were a lot of the things that like we had a lot of experience with. And sort of what I mean by that is like we make music almost the same way we did 15 years ago. But like everything else around that business has completely changed in terms of how we distribute it, create community, sell it, to it and all these things. And I think building a company obviously you still care about you know revenue, net
[00:33:27] dollar retention, customer acquisition costs, cogs, all those things. But the inputs by which you create them is different. And it felt like there was an opportunity to build sort of a differentiated type of firm that isn't necessarily supposed to be a substitute for a craft or Sequoia or whoever's out there, but be like a collaborative partner and sort of like for lack of a better term like understand our role in
[00:33:47] the ecosystem and don't >> Can you can you unpack then what what does the firm look like then? >> Uh I mean we're you know we have a me Jeff Drew Milan founded it. We have, you know, a few great partners in like engrav, you know, specialize in or focus at least across cyber AI, infra, deep tech, and health tech. And we invest in st series A stage companies. We don't take lead positions. We like being the sixth man of the year on these teams.
[00:34:11] It's sort of like I I think of ourselves as like Robert Horry, like Robert Horry has a ton of championship rings, you know, and you could be really successful and you don't have to be, you know, Shaquille O'Neal on every team. And I think we've learned a lot by working with great firms. And we've also learned a lot by working with great founders. And that's sort of getting back to your question is the kind of the
[00:34:30] whole point which is like beginning to build that muscle that pattern recognition on what greatness looks like. What are these firms doing to support these founders? And then I think you all over exaggerate like what everyone is actually doing for these companies. And I was surprised by like you know I get an email saying like hey do is there any way you can get me in in the you know on the phone with this person? And it was like actually yes we
[00:34:50] played their company party 3 days ago. That's no problem. And so we've been like extraordinarily helpful when it comes to like go to market relationships, brand, you know, sort of the brand building side of things, which I think is, you know, become really important nowadays when you talk about like the defensibil indefensibility that AI has created around tech. You really need to like suck the oxygen. >> I mean, this out of the room a critical
[00:35:12] point. You guys are just extraordinary entrepreneurs. To actually make a business work in the music industry is one of the most difficult things you could ever do. It's a magnitude more difficult than making software and so you have I think a lot of credibility there and go-to market and being able to support people in networking and then also knowing when to get out of the way. The great founders very rarely need help
[00:35:37] and when they do something like networking or or something like understanding the business model you you are actually very well connected to do it. Um and deal flow is the hardest part of being a venture capitalist. We are blessed with this podcast. You know, gives us the ability to get a lot of deal flow and you're blessed with the fact that, hey, you guys are very well respected in your field and, you know, a
[00:36:01] lot of the people who are founders have probably come to see you play and might have jammed out to your music and uh I think it's absolutely valid. >> Yeah. >> Um and I, you know, for people to kind of goof on it or whatever, you're doing the work. It's very easy to goof on venture capitalist, but it's hard. >> I love being the underdog. Like that's the best position. Um, and I think like I wouldn't bet against us and I don't
[00:36:23] think anyone that has it's worked out with, but like keep letting us keep underestimating us. I'm happy to be uh in that position, but like we love the hard work. We love showing up. That's always been in our DNA. Um, you know, for us it's it's this is an incredible opportunity. I mean, I studied art history at NYU. Like all of this is unbelievable to me um to be in this position doing any of this stuff. Um, so
[00:36:44] we don't take it for granted, but like it's, you know, these things are are people's life's work and, you know, life's dreams and, you know, to be able to go, you know, play shows all over the world for our fans and see the experience that what our music means to people. Um, I mean, it's the most fulfilling thing I can imagine doing with our lives. >> You know, as tech has gotten bigger and bigger, I mean, I've noticed that
[00:37:05] there's a tremendous curiosity from people in Hollywood. I mean, not just music business, but acting or the agencies. I mean, everyone kind of wants to get in it in some way. You guys have invested in like a ton of unicorns. I mean, you have a phenomenal track record of the companies you've gotten into. It's very impressive. I'm curious like what advice would you give someone in Hollywood who maybe has like huge
[00:37:29] stardom, you know, is very well known and they're like who could get allocations and deal just based on their name, but they have no idea how to do it. What would your advice to them be? >> I mean, I would ask them if they paid off their mortgage first. Um, and if they've done all of that stuff, I'd say like venture is probably the last frontier to begin investing in in my opinion. Um, cuz it is long duration
[00:37:50] illquid assets generally. >> I mean, venture is also just extremely hard. I mean, you're talking about, you know, >> extremely hard. >> We were looking at some some chart yesterday in our chat just like the, you know, five uh top 5% generate 90% of returns. Like you have to just be in the best companies. And so when you're it's it's brutal out here to have success in two things whether it's sports, Hollywood, music, um and then venture
[00:38:18] like you just you got to approach it the same way like you have we dedicate all of our time to these two things like we work se 24/7 we are heavy in the streets. We've seen a lot of people that have asked us, you know, you know, we want to get into the venture game and, you know, it's very rare that those usually when we meet with them, we meet with their teams and they don't show up for the call and uh I don't think people
[00:38:41] realize like how much work it is like personally every deal we've had to get in >> because there's a lot of noise. Basically, you have to sift through that to find >> I don't think people want to do that. Like I really I think the idea of venture is super exciting but what it takes is extremely hard. >> Does does your fame help hurt or neutral? >> I think both. I mean to be honest I mean I think there's obviously opportunities
[00:39:05] to connect with people that probably would I mean I'm on LinkedIn all the time leveraging my like name and getting in touch with people that I want to speak with. But then there's obviously like the fundraising side where you know you're speaking to a principal at a you know institution and they're just like listen I like what you're doing but I'm not about to like invest in the chain smokers fund uh because like you'll be
[00:39:25] the first thing that will be pointed out to me if something goes wrong and I understand that and I think you need to be empathetic to that point and I think you know we just are always been results driven guys so it's like all good I'll be back next fund with numbers that will make you regret this decision and we'll try this again. I think you're saying something incredibly powerful. It is so I think like if I learned anything in
[00:39:46] that chapter of my life as an investor, the ability to generate consistent DPI cuts through all the noise because they could have issues with you or not. People have had issues with me and not but what's undeniable are returns. And the ability to convert whatever asset you have, attention, fame, track record, technical experience, whatever, into results really does speak for itself because that's the one thing I think
[00:40:09] investors have a very good tendency to do is they have an extremely short memory for everything other than returns. >> Yeah. And I think that's like one of the I mean we're still relatively it's been seven 12 years since our first check and seven years since we started the fund. And you know I still feel like the new kid on the block and I feel like you know what's challenging right now and I'm sure you guys discussed at nauseium
[00:40:28] up here is just like there is so much liquidity going into everything right now that you know it's not just about riding in a company that you know is going to get marked up just by virtue of the people involved and and I think that like that's the hard part but also like the responsibility of being good man man manager which is like really investing in like ideas founders businesses that feel real and tangible versus sort of
[00:40:54] like the hypy side of venture which is you know very relevant and you could honestly go out here invest in a you know there's a ton of companies where you're like I know this is just going to get marked up but I just don't see the vision long term for where this company heads and I think that's the challenge as someone that like yes I love those results those the TVBI always looks great but like uh you know really
[00:41:16] betting on a bigger vision idea like I mean obviously Airbnb at the time Uber when you did it And like that was a nonobvious decision >> to to your point. Um I introduced 21 angel investors to Travis and uh 19 said no, three said yes, me banister and um first round capital. And >> why do you think they said no and you guys? >> I could tell you the reasons. They said um well this is a dirty business in the real world. We don't want to be involved
[00:41:44] in we we invest in software companies. If he will just sell the software, if you can, very famous venture capitalist told me, "If you can convince Travis to just sell the software to the cab companies, we'll back it. But we don't want to be in that dirty real world business cuz somebody's going to get hit by an Uber and die and, you know, then we're going to be on the hook for it. It's just it's too complicated. It's too
[00:42:06] dirty." And Robin Hood was the same thing. I mean, they they looked at Robin Hood and they laughed at that company and we were in that company before they left. >> I remember when that company was raising its seed series A, it was a total joke. People are like, "This is the dumb." >> You know, it's not a >> It was a huge mistake. I'll tell you what I I made wrong in that in Robin Hood. It was purely my own ego. They had
[00:42:23] a signup list of like some number of millions of people. And one of our principles was really adamant that we invest in this business. And what I couldn't get over was my own previous experience at Facebook and how I had helped architect its growth mechanism. and it violated too many priors for me >> and I just couldn't get around it. And you know when you look at that that's a billion dollar mistake which is hor
[00:42:49] horrible >> by way I really resonate with that like we don't invest in any music apps or anything related entertainment >> cuz I have like a very hard time sort of not being a pessimist about these opportunities and I think you have to I don't want to call it like blind optimism but like pragmatic >> any any any investment you've made where you've lost money you never invest in that space again. And it's like so
[00:43:11] common or if you've had success, it's just too close. >> Like, oh, we're going to get rid of the manager and you're like, what? No chance. I like, you know, these things you experience. >> The the one thing that will cut through all of that biases is just understanding h how capable this person is, you know, and how difficult and driven they are. And that is at the core. When I met Vlad and and his partner and they said,
[00:43:35] "We're going to get millennials to invest, and we're going to do it because they're going to invest for free." All I thought to myself is these these guys are extraordinary. They're so smart and and they're quants and now they're going to build this app, right? >> What if it works? >> And and that is the hard question is to just pause for a second and say, if this does work, what does the world look like? And now we're over 10 years in uh
[00:43:56] Robin Hood. I've never sold a share. In fact, I bought a lot of shares when it was $9 a share on the public market. Again, >> you've still not sold? >> Still haven't sold a single share. Um, I mean, I've sold a lot of Uber over the years because I was, it was 99% of my net worth at one point and it was no choice but to do that, but I still hold a lot. And, um, Robin Hood is a very special company because now you have two
[00:44:16] generations of people on it >> and Vlad keeps launching the next vertical, the next vertical, the next vertical >> until he's not running that company and he doesn't have the um, product vision and execution, those things can't be faked. Execution cannot be faked. >> Here's an interesting observation. I'm not sure if it's true or not. When you look at the great investors of an asset class, it is usually the case that they