[00:00:00] No text All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world, the AllIn podcast. In the news, in your feed. We're ready to go. We've got the original quartet here. The band's back together. All right. First up on the No text docket. A code red has been called by Sam Alman. He sent a memo on Monday. He told employees to stop working on side quests, you know, like ads, etc., and focus on the core chat. GPT, the core experience. Make it faster. make it better. And I think we all know why
[00:00:33] because Gemini and Grock and Claude from Anthropic have been crushing it. Chat GPT5, let's call it what it is, was a bit of a flop. It didn't perform to expectations. We discussed that a couple of weeks ago or months ago. Anthropic is beating OpenAI in enterprise revenue starting this summer. And I talked about how, you know, previous episodes on the streets. I'm seeing more startups want to use Anthropic API and also Google Gemini's API and and
[00:01:02] they don't essentially trust Open AI to not steal their business. So, it's big changes right now. Here is a chart based on data from July. Most of Anthropics revenue here is corporate. Most of OpenAI's as everybody knows is consumer. And here's another chart. OpenAI's new infrastructure deals versus revenue and this is just for 2025 alone. A lot of deals being made, but competition is fierce. Chimath, your thoughts here on
[00:01:34] the game on the field. Code red for people who don't know in our industry is when everybody reports to the office and gets focused on one thing. And uh that's apparently what Sam's doing. How do you interpret it? Look, I think that there are two things. Let's do the strategic lens and then the tactical lens. the strategic lens is that this is an incredibly vibrant and dynamic market and I think it's too
[00:01:58] difficult and too early to pick winners other than at the silicon layer where largely that die has been cast. I think that it's going to grow. So we can talk about how there'll be more competition but it's roughly Nvidia plus AMD plus Google plus a bunch of inference silicon. So that's sort of that market but above it at the model market. It reminds me, frankly, a lot of when we were building Facebook. I remember sitting around our senior executive
[00:02:23] team, six of us, looking at MySpace, who was an order of magnitude bigger than us. And at some point, we were like, you know what, our product is just fundamentally better than theirs. And they had 100 million plus users and we had sort of 15. But we knew that we were eventually going to beat them. Nobody else knew. And I feel like this market is similarly evolving, which is that you have these early winners, but there's still so much work to do. There's still so many consumer expectations to define
[00:02:54] that it's too early to know who's going to win. And ultimately, what we are learning, especially as all these markets converge, is that distribution still matters a ton, which favors Google. It favors Meta, although Meta's quite behind. And now it will still favor OpenAI because they have 800 million monthly activives. So then the tactical thing is what do you do knowing that this dynamic is set up to have a lot of competition and I think what you
[00:03:20] have to do is streamline the focus and try to make a crisis out of every opportunity because look the companies tend to just grow this positive entropy tends to cause people to hire at every level and you look around and there's thousands of people that you didn't know even six months ago. And so I think if Sam can use different points in time to tighten the core focus, they'll be better off. And I think that is what Google did a while back. If you remember the whole black George Washington thing,
[00:03:48] they were able to use that as a rallying cry to streamline the organization and to focus and to get their best and smartest people to work on the most highly leveraged tasks. And what you see now is an incredible overperformance from where they were. I've said this before, but Gemini is is incredible. So, I think that that's what's happening. Too early to call. It's a three or four horse race and Sam needs to batten down
[00:04:12] the hatches. And I think he used this opportunity to stop a bunch of peripheral activities. Yeah. And as we saw, Sergey called a personal code red. He said, "I have to get in the office. I have to inspire everybody because this is existential for us if we lose the search franchise, which they haven't. The code red works." So David Freeberg, maybe you could discuss a little bit code red as a management
[00:04:35] technique. You were at Google. I don't know if they were calling code reds back then because you didn't have any competition, but we're in a much different world here. This is the most competitive thing we've ever seen in our lifetimes. I think Google had an early lead in search and then Microsoft launched and it formed a code red model at Google that was called Project Canada as the code word for Microsoft. And there was a weekly war room meeting and
[00:05:02] a whole bunch of strategy and product decision-making that was driven around the impending threat from Microsoft because Microsoft was such a big behemoth, so well capitalized, had incredible engineering talent. Part of the response was to set up an office in Kirkland to recruit engineers up in Seattle to aggressively grow that base. There was a whole bunch of tactics that emerged from the strategic lens of
[00:05:27] project Canada. It is a very powerful method. It is how the United States got to the moon in a race with Russia. It is how we are now in a race for supremacy in technology and AI against China. Having an impending threat is a very strong motivational tactic. It is a very focusing setting and it drives innovation. And so we'll see what happens. Chat GPT was basically the market monopoly in AI or LLM chat interface and it only had
[00:06:01] one way to go which was down. Google I think at this point has roughly 14%. So here you can see OpenAI is on the decline. Obviously a little over a year ago they were at 90% plus market share in generative AI traffic and today Gemini is at 14 15%. the depth, the flywheel that Google has built gives them such extraordinary advantage. Okay, let's go to Emperor Palpatine. Uh, this is coming together as exactly as
[00:06:27] you orchestrated you as thesar of AI and crypto. Thank you for your service, civil servant David Sachs. You wanted to see vibrant competition. Well, here we have it. Assess the playing field as you see it from DC. Well, first of all, let me give credit to Sam for calling this code red, breaking the glass, and pulling the the alarm. I think it's so easy for CEOs in general to engage in happy talk and ignore problems, especially when
[00:06:56] discussing them is going to create a PR story that they don't like. And I do think one of the things that's unique about Silicon Valley is just that the founders and CEOs do treat the situation of their companies in a more existential way because we actually do have tremendous competition. And so anytime I think a CEO is willing to again take a bad PR story in order to focus their troops on a real business problem, I
[00:07:22] think they deserve credit for it because I think when you look at the rest of the Fortune 500, you know, these CEOs are just kind of managing PR all the time. Now with respect to the ecosystem as a whole, it is very competitive and I think we've got five major companies and they all have their strengths. So chat GPT is the leader in consumer. They have something like 80% market share in consumer use of LLM chatbots. But then Google came out with their new Gemini 3
[00:07:50] and they were starting to take share based on the strength of Gemini 3 and the integration it has obviously within Google search cuz it's very easy for people to discover it when they do a Google search and now they're seeing that it's actually pretty good. So they were starting to take share from Chat GBT and I think that's why Sam issued the code red. Then you've got anthropic like you mentioned where I don't particularly love what I've called their regulatory capture strategy, but I have to acknowledge their products are very
[00:08:16] good. Everybody seems to say that they have the best coding assistant and they're carving out a very lucrative niche in enterprise. And then you've got XAI which I think is the best at current events because of the integration with X. And also Elon seems to be able to scale his data center, his training cluster the fastest. He's got, you know, he had Colossus one, now he's got Colossus 2, and that portends good things for Grock 5. He's going to be
[00:08:44] trained on the largest cluster of Blackwells. So, in any event, you got all these companies that are doing pretty well. I guess Meta has sort of hit some headwinds, but they're going to continue investing tremendously in AI and they've got deep pockets to do it. So, I think that they'll come back. And you know what you see is all these companies are kind of leapronging each other. you get a new version and then they sort of leaprog each other in terms of
[00:09:08] the leaderboards are showing that yes saxs when you look at the leaderboard it's constantly Grock comes above Gemini Gemini comes there's a lot of leaprogging going on there's a lot of also I'd say specialization now going on in the ways that I just mentioned all these companies are developing strengths there's sort of verticals happening yes and so I've described this as sort of a a goldilock scenario where you're making a lot of progress in AI but the market
[00:09:30] is remaining very competitive ideally it does not consolidate just to on monopoly player like we've seen in other tech markets because then you end up with a big tech company that's got too much power and control. That's not generally a great thing for consumers versus China. What does it say versus us versus China? That that was the dialogue a year ago. Oh my god, China. Oh my god, China. Where are we at today? Because this is
[00:09:54] impressive this vibrant competition. Well, look, competition brings out the best in the American system. And I think that that is what creates the most progress and that's what's going to allow us to win the AI race against China. China has a lot of competition too, but they do tend to anoint national champions more. I guess they usually do it more after a competition stage. So, you know, maybe it doesn't prevent competition, but look, China's formidable. They got a lot of good AI
[00:10:20] companies, too. And this is going to be a horse race, but again, there's no question that the system for sure. But look, there's no question that in the American system, uh, the it's competition that brings out the best. And that's what we're seeing right now. Jason, what do you think? Interestingly, I just want to build a little bit on what Freeberg showed. The way I'm sort of seeing this is now chat GPT versus the world 36 months ago, chat
[00:10:43] GPT, OpenAI had 100%, right? They started the category as you pointed out correctly, David. And um, their decline in market share is increasing in velocity. Uh if we were looking at just 12 months ago, they had 84% of the space and uh now they're at 68. So they they've this is accelerating. You pointed out Chamath correctly why it's accelerating. Distribution matters. We've talked about it countless times here. Meta is forcing you to use their
[00:11:10] AI search, which is pretty bad. I'll be honest. every time you do a search on Instagram, it's annoying. But those all count as users using the product just like Slack face competition from Microsoft Teams when it bundled. And so I just tracked this out and this is what I think is going to happen over the next four years. I think we're going to see Open AI go down to about a third of the market and I think the other players are
[00:11:34] going to take two/3s. The reason I think this is because to Sax's point, specialization's happening. If you look at Nano Banana, which is the image processing over at um Google, it's fantastic. Grock image is fantastic. So, you're going to have four different five different choices for images. You're going to have four or five different really credible choices. Now, you have to look also at the competition and what
[00:11:57] Sam is facing. I've known Sam 20 years now. He is a consmate dealmaker, perhaps too good at dealmaking. He was incredible at recruiting and his PR game was very strong. Everybody realizes that. And look at who he's facing. Freeberg. Elon Agra Sergey and Sundar at Google. Zuckerberg at Meta Dario Sati at Microsoft who's his partner who's now his competitor. Elon was his benefactor now his competitor. You got
[00:12:24] the open- source projects, Deepseek, etc. Sachs in China. And then his former employees are trying to kill him as well. So you have Ilia doing safe super intelligence which hasn't launched yet and Meera doing thinking machine. She's you know obviously was doing all the video stuff. So I think what we're going to see here if we're sitting here I don't know next year they're going to be in the next 12 to 24 months under 50%.
[00:12:50] And these companies are explicitly trying to kill open AI. They the amount of bad will that Sam has built is colossal and I think it's from doing too many deals. And if you look at what he did to Nvidia, Nvidia put out a statement recently that they have the option to invest. So we were sitting here two months ago and I know people in the industry were staying up late at night worrying about all these deals Sam
[00:13:15] were was doing. All those deals apparently are coming out that they're options. These weren't real deals. A lot of them were options. And so Jensen came out and said, "Hey, we have the opportunity to invest in OpenAI." But you remember Sam did that AMD deal the week after he or two weeks after he did the OpenAI deal. A lot of this is creating bad feelings. And I think we're at peak OpenAI right now. I said it on
[00:13:39] the show a couple weeks ago. I think the pair trade is to to bet against every it's Chat GPT versus the world. And I think the world wins two/3s. They can still be in a good place. I think you're right that this market probably gets split up three or four ways. And so the winner probably gets a third of the market. Most other markets that end up in a three or four person race ends up in that space. But a third of a market can still be very valuable
[00:14:04] if that market has five or six billion people using it. Absolutely. It's going to be tremendous. Yeah. And that can still support a multi-t trillion dollar market cap. So I don't think it's it's by any means a death nail for open AI, but it does mean that a lot of these projects probably need to get shuttered because you need to just do a few things very very well because consumers will start to split their
[00:14:28] purchasing decisions if you will or their usage decisions across vertical things for specific purposes. So yes, I may use Grock image because I love that and it's just much better. But then I may use Enthropic for codegen while I use Gemini for deep research and then I use chat GPT for conversational search. Yes. Now all of a sudden I'm using all four. That's highly realistic that outcome. In fact, I look at my phone now. I try to limit the number of apps on the phone,
[00:14:54] but I have Gemini and Grock as the two anchor apps. Mhm. Because I'm so reliant on both of them and I just keep going back and forth between them. Interestingly, I have four. I have Claude also in perplexity on my on my desktop. And I go through all four of them. Here's what Google and other folks are planning. They're going to take the main revenue stream of OpenAI and they're going to suck the oxygen out of the room and they're going to try to strangle Sam and the team over
[00:15:19] there by making it free. So, right now, if 75% of that metaphor, very, very vital, but this is war. This is the greatest battle we've seen since like Netscape versus Microsoft and the internet. They're going to make Gemini free for life for the best models. That's my prediction for Google and I think Meta will be right behind them. Why? They have the ad network already built and they know in that fierce competition which you were part of Chimoth and Freeberg how fierce that
[00:15:48] competition was that duopoly does not want to become a a throppple with Sam. I think this is going to be very analogous to what happened with Netscape. People used to pay 50 bucks for a Netscape browser and then the idea when Microsoft came in and made it free and uh Chrome became free and Dolphin browser and a million other uh providers. Same thing's going to happen to Chat GPT. Right now 80% of the revenue comes from $20 subscriptions. That's going to get
[00:16:12] decimated to zero. I don't think consumers are going to pay for this product just like they won't pay for search and they won't pay for a browser because Google and Meta will make it free. I think it's different reason actually. The reason why they will do it, yeah, is because they have such an inordinate amount of cash and that cash is valueless on the balance sheet. So, you might as well just rip it in. If you look at the companies that have a need to spend money right now, it's
[00:16:36] Google, it's Microsoft, it's Meta, it's Nvidia, and maybe Broadcom, but let's just keep Broadcom out of it. But Apple's there, too. And Apple. Yeah. All of those companies have so much cash. If you actually look at the DCF of the enterprise value of these businesses, it gets very little credit for that cash almost to the point where it's worthless. And so you either need to spend it on M&A, spend it on