[00:14:28] purchasing decisions if you will or their usage decisions across vertical things for specific purposes. So yes, I may use Grock image because I love that and it's just much better. But then I may use Enthropic for codegen while I use Gemini for deep research and then I use chat GPT for conversational search. Yes. Now all of a sudden I'm using all four. That's highly realistic that outcome. In fact, I look at my phone now. I try to limit the number of apps on the phone,
[00:14:54] but I have Gemini and Grock as the two anchor apps. Mhm. Because I'm so reliant on both of them and I just keep going back and forth between them. Interestingly, I have four. I have Claude also in perplexity on my on my desktop. And I go through all four of them. Here's what Google and other folks are planning. They're going to take the main revenue stream of OpenAI and they're going to suck the oxygen out of the room and they're going to try to strangle Sam and the team over
[00:15:19] there by making it free. So, right now, if 75% of that metaphor, very, very vital, but this is war. This is the greatest battle we've seen since like Netscape versus Microsoft and the internet. They're going to make Gemini free for life for the best models. That's my prediction for Google and I think Meta will be right behind them. Why? They have the ad network already built and they know in that fierce competition which you were part of Chimoth and Freeberg how fierce that
[00:15:48] competition was that duopoly does not want to become a a throppple with Sam. I think this is going to be very analogous to what happened with Netscape. People used to pay 50 bucks for a Netscape browser and then the idea when Microsoft came in and made it free and uh Chrome became free and Dolphin browser and a million other uh providers. Same thing's going to happen to Chat GPT. Right now 80% of the revenue comes from $20 subscriptions. That's going to get
[00:16:12] decimated to zero. I don't think consumers are going to pay for this product just like they won't pay for search and they won't pay for a browser because Google and Meta will make it free. I think it's different reason actually. The reason why they will do it, yeah, is because they have such an inordinate amount of cash and that cash is valueless on the balance sheet. So, you might as well just rip it in. If you look at the companies that have a need to spend money right now, it's
[00:16:36] Google, it's Microsoft, it's Meta, it's Nvidia, and maybe Broadcom, but let's just keep Broadcom out of it. But Apple's there, too. And Apple. Yeah. All of those companies have so much cash. If you actually look at the DCF of the enterprise value of these businesses, it gets very little credit for that cash almost to the point where it's worthless. And so you either need to spend it on M&A, spend it on
[00:17:00] buybacks, or spend it to subsidize a product so that you can maintain your leadership in the broader market. And so what you're going to see is these big companies do this capital allocation model in a much more aggressive way. So there's only so many share buybacks that these guys can do. they approve 50, 60, 70, 80 billion dollars in buybacks. It just doesn't lift the stock price the same way it does when you actually show
[00:17:26] leadership in a product category. Right. So to your point, if you're just going to underwrite a decision, just look at the last 3 weeks of Google's stock performance, it basically doubled once we thought that Gemini was incredible. And so if you want to make Gemini even more incredible, just get pour another billion users into it. And if that cost you 50 billion, it's okay because you'll make a trillion of market cap. It's like a no-brainer. Yeah. And and think about all the
[00:17:52] reinforcement learning that those big players have at scale. I think it's going to be just, by the way, the other the other thing is if we're playing conspiracy theorist, I think the reason why Sam did those deals to your point, he is a consumate, very talented dealmaker. Yes. is probably because he needed to continue to generate the type of momentum required to raise the quantum of capital that he needs. So if you're silent, it's much harder to
[00:18:18] raise a hundred billion dollars and you're shucking and jing and you're just putting a lot of things out there that could convince people that there's a level of momentum that's worth underwriting at a much higher valuation. So you have to keep that in mind, too. Yes, I think that that is his highlevel, you know, 4D chess. I think Nvidia is predicting it now. I think Nvidia is not going to take their option to invest in OpenAI or they're going to really downgrade it 70 80% and they're going to
[00:18:42] allocate it to other players. Freeberg, any final thoughts here as we wrap up on this? What is your B what's your basis for that prediction? I think that Nvidia is wants to own more of the other players. I do actually have a basis for this. I think that they were very pissed off at the other support he gave to their competitors. How do you know they closed that deal? I know a lot of people in the industry.
[00:19:06] You sound like the New York Times. Okay. Well, great segue. Everybody knows. What's your source? Everybody reveal my sources say sources say open secret. Sources say sorry. I'll just let me just wrap up on the on the and I'll just I'll just echo a little bit what Jim said. I don't think that the battle is going to be won and lost on LLMs. I think that there's several fronts and we're so early in AI. It's not going to necessarily just be about
[00:19:32] textbased token production. These non-extbased models, the nonLLM models, the complexity to them and the differentiation is so much wider than it is in LLM. Kind of think about it in I I think about it in terms of like a Holde versus Omaha game. Like the difference between the median and the best player in an Omaha game is so significant compared to the median and the best player in a hold game because it's just so much more complex. I don't know if you remember this guy Chris Ferguson. He
[00:20:04] used to win every Omaha tournament back in the day because he was one of the first guys to figure it out. So everyone that knew Holde thought that they could just step into Omaha and because he figured out how to do Omaha, he just wrecked everyone consistently. Anyway, in video for example, right, they use diffusion models and then they also use a transformer architecture and then they use these convolutional neural networks to create structure within the frame and continue structure between frames and
[00:20:28] video. There are multiple models that have to interact and work together to render video. So you have to have good training. You also have to have unique architecture. And so the amount of differentiation that's possible in video AI is I would say this point today so much wider than the differentiation in textbased AI like what we see with LLMs. As those things start to become more mainstream, I think that applications
[00:20:52] that we are not necessarily thinking about today are going to become a bigger use case for how we spend our time. And that is really when you'll start to see, you know, this horse race start to kind of play out a little bit more differently than it does today where everything's all about usage on a chat interface. We're going to look back at that one day. It's going to be the equivalent of everyone on AOL Instant
[00:21:11] Messenger or Yahoo Instant Messenger. It's like, who gives a That's not really where the game's going to be played. While we're speaking, Gemini just released Gemini 3. Deep Think is here. So, the race is continuing even as we're taping the show. Let me add one more thing which is I don't know just a few months ago on this show maybe it was three months ago maybe it was six months ago we were all like giving eulogies for Google I wasn't I was not I took the other side
[00:21:37] well I mean I don't know there are a lot of people were and I I was definitely I think the majority of the industry was I I did take the other side of it yeah I think Brag Gurley and uh sorry Brad Gersonner and Bill Gurley were Brad Gurley the bragly show bragly show it's one person Brad Gurley definitely were and look and the argument made a lot of sense which was this, which is even if you believe that Google's going to come back and have a credible AI product, remember
[00:22:00] they were caught completely flatfooted by this. They figured out the transformer architecture back in 2017, but then they didn't really do anything with it and then OpenAI grabbed on to that and then like you showed on that chart, they basically had a 2-year head start on LLMs. So, a lot of people were basically saying that this was it for Google because obviously LLMs are so much better at web search than the 10 blue links. And moreover, for monetization,
[00:22:24] why would you need to have, you know, ad links or paid links in an LLM world? And and I think the point that Brad and Bill were making is again, even if Google catches up, they'll never have the dominant position in AI that they have in search. It still might be true. Who knows? But the point is just everyone was saying that Google was in deep trouble just I don't know 6 months ago and then like you said I think Sergey came back and that gave them a major shot in the arm and they got more
[00:22:55] focused and now they've launched what appears to be the best or one of the best models a competitive but look these other companies there's there's a lot of leaprogging going on. I think really importantly it's not just about Sergey coming back it's about giving themselves permission to take risk. The reason Google didn't lead into AI for years, even though they had the technology sacks, is because they were nervous about cannibalization to search,
[00:23:18] they were nervous about the the quality of the product. They didn't want to release things too early. And then they changed their posture and they became a more risk-taking posture. And that gave them the permission to run, which by the way, I would argue is the opposite at OpenAI in the last couple months. I used to use advanced voice on chat GPT all the time. I cannot stand it anymore. I do not use it. It has basically hedged away all of the value because it tries to be polite. It tries to make sure that
[00:23:44] it's giving you warnings all the time. It doesn't want to give you data because it's scared that it might give you the wrong data. You can see it used to give you data all the time. I cannot get it to give me numbers anymore. I'm like, give me the numbers and it just says these kind of highle arching statements and I'm like that's not what I want. I went over to Gemini. It gave me the numbers. And I think that Google's willingness to take risk has really kind of highlighted the difference in posture
[00:24:07] in the last year. Chat GPT is now acting and OpenAI has been acting like an incumbent, fearful of losing market share and fearful of getting attacked in the media and attacked by consumers for saying the wrong thing. And so they've taken this kind of defensive posture that I think has fundamentally damaged the product and the brand. I'm just having a great time thinking about I'm thinking about Freeberg yelling at his AI assistant in his car. It's like we need to get make a short out of that. Keep going. Well, just
[00:24:31] Google did one other important thing. I mean, in addition to Sergey, there was putting Demis Hassabis in charge of all of AI because before I think he was just in charge of Google DeepMind, it was sort of a subset and then they put him in charge of the overall and I think that made a huge difference as well. Yeah. And the PI is growing. So, the number of searches, the number of queries is increasing dramatically. I think we'll have 20 30 times the amount
[00:24:55] of queries being done because the answers are better. It's not just queries. It's It's not just queries. This is my point. It's like more than you're not using it to do search anymore, right? You're using it to watch video. You're using it to book flights. Yeah. The agentic stuff. I'm putting that all together. So, the amount of utility that you can get from it is so great that it's going to go 20x. The same thing's happening with ride sharing. It's more than just search is the whole
[00:25:20] point. This has now become such an instrumental part of everything we do in our lives and it's going to take over more of how we spend our time in our lives that it's not just about search anymore. It's a whole new paradigm. The pie will be 20 times bigger. Let me ask you a very question. Do you think that OpenAI's sort of more conservative risk posture, do you think it's a function of the fact that whether by luck or design they decided that the
[00:25:43] consumer market was sort of their core market? Whereas you look at something like Anthropic, right, and they've carved out enterprise, but if you're a consumer product, there's so many more things you have to address and you're going to be attacked at so many more different ways. Yeah. And and by being the market incumbent, it actually ended up creating a fantastic foil for Google because they started getting all of the arrows and slings from the media about health advice and suicides and hallucinations
[00:26:10] and sending wrong information and all the risks and damage that that causes. Meanwhile, everyone's ju laughing and joking about Google and ignoring them. It was more than that. Remember, remember last summer there was the court case where the judge said that they were guilty of having the monopoly and then he was going to rule on what the remedies were going to be. And I think that was in what was it September and the judge said that during the summer and then whenever it was that he
[00:26:36] ruled on the remedy that they were existentially threatened in their search business and so everything had changed. Yeah. I mean so the company didn't get broken out. remember they were thinking about whether to spin out Chrome, YouTube. Yeah. All these kind of in a way no greater blessing has ever happened to Alphabet than OpenAI's rise. And I think that that rise not only did it create the foil for Google in the monopoly sense, but it also took the attention
[00:27:01] away from Google, focused it on Open AI, and that attention fundamentally damaged OpenAI strategic product capabilities because they had to start to be so much more careful about what they said, how they said it. and it fundamentally damaged the product. And the opposite was happening at Google at the same time, which is Larry, Sergey, and Sundar being given permission by the board to take risk, to go hard, to figure this out. And boom. You know, it's amazing how the horse race has changed. Okay, we
[00:27:26] had an amazing time in Vegas. I want to thank our friends at the Venetian. You guys were the best host we could have ever imagined. What VIP treatment you gave the besties and our friends and partners. And we had a great interview with Molly Bloom from Molly's Game, the movie, etc. Thanks to our partners, Oracle, OKX, and the New York Stock Exchange for partnering with us on a very successful F1 weekend in Vegas. And
[00:27:52] we had a great lunch with Oracle. Congrats to them on Red Bull's Big Win in Vegas and an amazing dinner with OKX where my new bestie, Jose Andreas, the chef, came from Bizaarre Meats and he cooked for us. He hung out with us. He play a little cards with us. He's just a true gentleman in a mench. Uh looking forward to hanging out with Jose Andreas a little more in the future. All right, there's another thing that went on this weekend. Big tech story and at the risk
[00:28:14] No text of being a little naval gazing here. We're going to cover it. The New York Times versus Mr. David Sachs. On Sunday, the New York Times published an article titled Silicon Valley's man in the White House is benefiting himself and his friends. Saxs are obviously the man they're referring to. Five reporters worked on this story for approximately 5 months is what we hear and the story attempted to frame you Sachs as conflicted first that your firm Craft
[00:28:43] has investments in companies. New York Times key claim quote Mr. Saxs has positioned himself to personally benefit. He has 78 tech investments including at least 449 stakes in companies with ties to artificial intelligence. And for background Sachs Elon you all joined as special government employees SGES. These are different than cabinet members in a bunch of different ways. Basically, they can't work more than 130 days. They're allowed to split time between their day jobs in DC.
[00:29:13] They don't have to be approved by the Senate. And they provide special expertise as Mr. Sachs is doing as the Zar of crypto and AI. Second major claim, raising the profile of Allin. Quote, "Mr. Sax has raised the profile of his weekly podcast, All In through his government role and expanded the business, which is super hilarious because they think our traffic peaked right before the election. Uh, but Saxs, uh, obviously you got a ton of air
[00:29:37] cover. People thought the story was biased and a hit job and it fell pretty flat. What's your take on this? Maybe take us behind take us behind the story. Well, I think maybe a good place to start is with the reaction to it. Like you said, there was this huge outpouring of people in Silicon Valley who reacted in a way that showed that they understood that this story was a hit piece, that it was biased, and I'd say