[00:27:26] had an amazing time in Vegas. I want to thank our friends at the Venetian. You guys were the best host we could have ever imagined. What VIP treatment you gave the besties and our friends and partners. And we had a great interview with Molly Bloom from Molly's Game, the movie, etc. Thanks to our partners, Oracle, OKX, and the New York Stock Exchange for partnering with us on a very successful F1 weekend in Vegas. And
[00:27:52] we had a great lunch with Oracle. Congrats to them on Red Bull's Big Win in Vegas and an amazing dinner with OKX where my new bestie, Jose Andreas, the chef, came from Bizaarre Meats and he cooked for us. He hung out with us. He play a little cards with us. He's just a true gentleman in a mench. Uh looking forward to hanging out with Jose Andreas a little more in the future. All right, there's another thing that went on this weekend. Big tech story and at the risk
[00:28:14] No text of being a little naval gazing here. We're going to cover it. The New York Times versus Mr. David Sachs. On Sunday, the New York Times published an article titled Silicon Valley's man in the White House is benefiting himself and his friends. Saxs are obviously the man they're referring to. Five reporters worked on this story for approximately 5 months is what we hear and the story attempted to frame you Sachs as conflicted first that your firm Craft
[00:28:43] has investments in companies. New York Times key claim quote Mr. Saxs has positioned himself to personally benefit. He has 78 tech investments including at least 449 stakes in companies with ties to artificial intelligence. And for background Sachs Elon you all joined as special government employees SGES. These are different than cabinet members in a bunch of different ways. Basically, they can't work more than 130 days. They're allowed to split time between their day jobs in DC.
[00:29:13] They don't have to be approved by the Senate. And they provide special expertise as Mr. Sachs is doing as the Zar of crypto and AI. Second major claim, raising the profile of Allin. Quote, "Mr. Sax has raised the profile of his weekly podcast, All In through his government role and expanded the business, which is super hilarious because they think our traffic peaked right before the election. Uh, but Saxs, uh, obviously you got a ton of air
[00:29:37] cover. People thought the story was biased and a hit job and it fell pretty flat. What's your take on this? Maybe take us behind take us behind the story. Well, I think maybe a good place to start is with the reaction to it. Like you said, there was this huge outpouring of people in Silicon Valley who reacted in a way that showed that they understood that this story was a hit piece, that it was biased, and I'd say
[00:30:05] most importantly, it didn't even live up to its own headline. It didn't prove the thing that they were asserting in the headline. And so, everyone could just see on its face that it was a hatchet job. And so, everyone started reacting that way. And it was nice to kind of get that outpouring of support from so many different people in Silicon Valley, including many of the companies who we just talked about are so vigorously competing with each other. I mean, I think this might be the only thing that
[00:30:27] Sam and Elon have agreed on in the last year. Yeah. Didn't you tell everyone to put these tweets out? I mean, like, so that that was sort of the next that was the next big lie that the media tried to perpetrate was somehow that this response was coordinated by me. No. And the reality, by the way, was crazy because you told me explicitly, "Stand down. I don't need you to do it." And I was like, "Leroy Jenkins." And I just went in and I was like, "I'm tweeting about this
[00:30:52] bullshit." No, I never told anyone to do anything except for you guys. And I told you guys not to react to it cuz I didn't want to striand the story, you know, where you basically draw even more attention to it. That was my media plan. And and then what happened is the story just went viral anyway because all of Silicon Valley reacted on their own in a grassroots and authentic way because I think they were actually genuinely offended by how bad the story was, how
[00:31:15] ridiculous it was on its face. And so they react and then that became the story. And so this whole coordinated narrative became in a way part of the the media industry's cover up for itself like their attempt to explain away why everybody thought that the story was so bad. Let me just say I do think that this outpouring of support does illustrate something important which is just how much power and respect the New
[00:31:40] York Times has lost. You know 10 years ago if the New York Times ran a hit piece on somebody even if other people didn't like it they wouldn't want to say anything because they'd be afraid that they would be the next target. And that mystique and that fear has completely broken down. people can kind of see the New York Times for what it is, which is basically a bunch of political activists who are pretending to be reporters and
[00:32:06] essentially they just launder the point of view of their anonymous sources who are basically left-wing Democrats and try to portray those viewpoints as somehow being neutral or objective truth, right? Because they're kind of presenting themselves as these neutral arbiters of the truth. And I think everyone can kind of see through that sham at this point. Yes. The thing they started with was the headline.
[00:32:31] And that was the one thing they refused to change no matter how many times we refuted their narrative. You know what they would do is every couple weeks they'd send us a new fact check. And we would basically debunk it. And we can show you some of those fact checks if you want to see them to see where the story started and what they're trying to prove. Yeah, let's do that. I think audience would really and what would happen is every time we would debunk one of their accusations, they would just come back to us with a
[00:32:53] new one every couple of weeks. The only fix point in their reporting was this idea that I had to have these conflicts of interests that were benefiting myself. Let me ask you a question. So, one of the statements that was made and then Governor Nuome repeated it at Andrew Ross Orcen Steelbook Conference yesterday is that you did not put all of your investments into a blind trust. You should have done that is what Newsome said on stage. Can you just address that like and what actions you actually took
[00:33:23] when you chose to take the office? What were you legally required to take and maybe why you didn't do a blind trust or maybe you did? I don't know. Well, no, we looked at that. Sorry, S. Just give me a second. I just want to say this because you're not going to say this yourself, but I remember when you were going through this, you were so concerned about the perception of a conflict of interest that you took such extraordinary measures about the degree at which you
[00:33:47] were selling things and getting rid of things to make sure that you could do the job cleanly and holy. I watched you do this and I watched you do something that I thought was so over the top. I'm like, "Holy you really are doing this for the country." And I was so shocked and surprised by it. And I just want to say that because I've observed it and they still came out with this piece which was so shocking to me given
[00:34:07] what you did. So you guys know what I went through because I was LPS and some of your funds and you know that I devested them which you could argue was above and beyond the call of duty, but I was just trying to avoid any potential conflict. And that I think is the central lie of this piece. Not only is the piece not true, it's the anti-truth. Yeah. Because the truth is that I devested hundreds of millions of dollars of positions in promising technology ventures at a substantial cost to my net worth. So not
[00:34:33] only is this job not benefiting me, it's actually cost me a lot of money to serve, but I did it because it's an honor to be asked by the president to serve and it's something I wanted to do and I thought I can make a difference. So the whole premise here is just false. And the New York Times through its 5 months of investigations knew this, but they just refused to budge on the premise of their story. Now, to your question here, if you look at one of the
[00:34:58] the key paragraphs that Jason, you mentioned is when they they try to mention that I have 449 investments tied to AI. And they say their investigation uncovered this and some of their reporters on podcasts have tried to portray themselves as Woodward and Bernstein here having uncovered. How did they get this crazy list of companies? I wonder I disclosed them. They didn't uncover them. I disclosed them. They're in my
[00:35:21] available to everyone. They're on the White House website in my ethics letter. So, every government employee, whether you're a full-time or SG, files disclosures with the government and my ethics letters basically contained these pages and pages of all these different positions. Now in that ethics letter they said that I had devested I had initiated or completed devestment of over 99% of the positions that could pose a conflict for AI and it's in there and
[00:35:51] this is where I think you know again they were very deceptive is it was the OG the office of government ethics the career civil servants the lawyers the accountants at OG who approved that letter and all the contents of that letter who reviewed all those disclosures and they're the ones who concluded that I did not have any conflicts. So really what the New York Times' beef is with the career civil servants at OG. Maybe walk us through what you actually did do. Why did you didn't do the blind trust and and help us get the context
[00:36:20] there. So on the blind trust. So it's kind of funny. One of the New York Times reporters was talking about this on a podcast which is where I think Newsome picked it up from. My ethics lawyer who teaches a course on conflicts of interest at Harvard said that that reporter should really take his course because he would actually learn something about the the conflicts laws. The blind trust idea is rarely used and in my case it would not have worked because I have minor children. You can
[00:36:45] only use the blind trust to have your kids be beneficiaries if they're adults. That's the way the conflict laws work. So it just wasn't even applicable in my case. And what I did instead of creating a blind trust is I devested the positions at great cost said were a conflict at a discount to their fair market value in the case of my LP interest and all these funds. I devested almost a hundred funds that I
[00:37:11] had invested in, venture funds, things like that, angel funds at roughly a 50% discount to their fair market value because that's insane because well they're private investments, right? And you know that selling an LP interest in a fund, there's no liquid market for that. So in order to even find a buyer, you have to make it super attractive for them. God. And then I sold you know XAI, I sold my interest in in Grock and those were all at substantial discounts to the next
[00:37:34] round which has now taken place. So joining the government is not a money-making scheme. The simplest way for me to make more money would have just been to keep doing what I was doing. Yeah. Right. Just go back to the 449. So again, they're kind of pretending like they did this unbelievable investigation and they find the the 449. Can you just put up this paragraph on on the screen here? Because really every sentence in this paragraph kind of reveals the sham of
[00:37:59] this story. Mr. Sax has positioned himself to personally benefit. Not true. I mean, I was already an investor in all these companies and I positioned myself to devest. Then it says I had 449 stakes in companies with ties to artificial intelligence. By the way, that whole phrase ties to is total journalism weasel words because ties to can mean anything and every company in the economy is going to have ties to
[00:38:26] artificial intelligence. And then they said could be aided directly or indirectly. That is not what a conflict of interest is. The standard is having a direct and predictable effect on an interest. Not indirect. And there's nothing in that story that shows that I had a direct benefit. This article has nothing to do with everything you guys just spent all this time talking about. Okay? There is nothing here. Okay? There was no crime here. There's no smoke here. There's no fire here.
[00:38:59] What you did get right though is the headline was the goal. And what is the goal of that headline? The goal of that headline is to insinuate and to pressure Sachs, but subtly it's to pressure everyone else that looks like Sachs. Now, what does it mean to look like Sachs? It's not just about Republican folks. This could be a Democratic person as well in the future. You're in industry. You know something very specific. You've done very well applying
[00:39:28] that knowledge. Now all of a sudden you're in a position where you could go and positively impact the trajectory of the United States. You're asked by the then sitting president of the United States to do something. What this article does is it tries to intimidate those kinds of people to say, "Wow, this is not worth it. This is just too much of a headache." The whole point was the headline and the whole point was to get
[00:39:52] enough chatter about the headline so that people like Sachs and then other people in the future just say, "You know what? I'm not going to try this." And what do they want instead? What they want instead are people that they can work with very closely and ultimately co-opt. If you look at people like Zoron Mumdani who's beloved by the New York Times or if you look at Lena Khan who's beloved by the New York Times as well, what's
[00:40:17] the through line? It's a total and complete lack of experience. And so what you're creating is essentially a very simple litmus test. If you have experience, we're going to paint you as conflicted. So stay away. But if you're completely inexperienced and have no experience whatsoever, have never done anything and you're probably going to screw it up. but at least you'll be in our pocket. We'll work with you and so we will leave you alone. That is the
[00:40:41] point of this article and that is what is on trial here. And I think what we all need to do is understand that simple thing and push back on it. Not just if you're a Republican, but also if you're a Democrat because there are tons of really smart people on both sides that will eventually be asked to do something for the United States and you need to ignore the idiots at the New York Times and do it. Yeah, this is well said and this literally was going to be the the
[00:41:06] point I was going to make as well, which is we're we're setting up two worlds. Do you want otherwise you will only Exactly. You'll only have inexperienced morons in the government even help. It doesn't. And here's ex such a good point that we have a choice right now. Do we want to have lawyers and academics with no experience in the real world setting policy in Washington DC or do you want to have experts? Do you want
[00:41:33] more Mike Bloombergs? Do you want more Jeff Bezos, more David Sachs, more Bessant, also a Democrat? Lutnik, also previously a Democrat. We want the smartest people in Washington DC. That's what the founders wanted. The founding fathers of this country wanted people to do short stints. We want short stints. We don't want career politicians like Nancy Pelosi or, you know, Mitch McConnell in there for 30, 40, 600
[00:41:58] years. Like literally these people are like look like zombies in Washington DC. They're glitching out. We want people in their prime of their careers to go in there chimoff like you're saying and kick ass for us for four or eight years and then come back. By the way, everybody benefits when you go to Washington DC and you make some connections. Of course, when the Clintons left office, what did they do? Clinton Foundation book deals, Obama's
[00:42:25] book deals, Netflix deals. Everybody gets a little shine when they come out. That's natural when you come out. But we want the best and brightest there. It's a gift that you went there, Sachs. It's a gift. I think Yeah, we can debate all these issues. And yes, civil servants should be under scrutiny. Whether it's Lena Khan or USA, people should be held to account for anything they're doing. You did it right. You went above and beyond. And now they're trying to punish you and they're trying to dissuade the next
[00:42:49] group of great Americans from going there. Yeah. Well, thank you. Yeah. Go ahead. There are two quotes from Thomas Jefferson. I'll just read because I think it's actually very important. He said in a letter in 1788, I apprehend that the total abandonment of the principle of rotation in the elected offices will end in abuse. And then he also later said in 1809, nature intended me for the tranquil pursuits of science,
[00:43:16] which is what he was into by rendering them my supreme delight. But the enormities of the times in which I have lived have forced me to take a part in resisting them and to commit myself on the boisterous ocean of political passions. The founding fathers to your point Jal and Chimath were vehemently committed to the United States being a free market, being a place where people could pursue with absolute liberty their interests in business, in science, in life. And the