[00:41:06] point I was going to make as well, which is we're we're setting up two worlds. Do you want otherwise you will only Exactly. You'll only have inexperienced morons in the government even help. It doesn't. And here's ex such a good point that we have a choice right now. Do we want to have lawyers and academics with no experience in the real world setting policy in Washington DC or do you want to have experts? Do you want
[00:41:33] more Mike Bloombergs? Do you want more Jeff Bezos, more David Sachs, more Bessant, also a Democrat? Lutnik, also previously a Democrat. We want the smartest people in Washington DC. That's what the founders wanted. The founding fathers of this country wanted people to do short stints. We want short stints. We don't want career politicians like Nancy Pelosi or, you know, Mitch McConnell in there for 30, 40, 600
[00:41:58] years. Like literally these people are like look like zombies in Washington DC. They're glitching out. We want people in their prime of their careers to go in there chimoff like you're saying and kick ass for us for four or eight years and then come back. By the way, everybody benefits when you go to Washington DC and you make some connections. Of course, when the Clintons left office, what did they do? Clinton Foundation book deals, Obama's
[00:42:25] book deals, Netflix deals. Everybody gets a little shine when they come out. That's natural when you come out. But we want the best and brightest there. It's a gift that you went there, Sachs. It's a gift. I think Yeah, we can debate all these issues. And yes, civil servants should be under scrutiny. Whether it's Lena Khan or USA, people should be held to account for anything they're doing. You did it right. You went above and beyond. And now they're trying to punish you and they're trying to dissuade the next
[00:42:49] group of great Americans from going there. Yeah. Well, thank you. Yeah. Go ahead. There are two quotes from Thomas Jefferson. I'll just read because I think it's actually very important. He said in a letter in 1788, I apprehend that the total abandonment of the principle of rotation in the elected offices will end in abuse. And then he also later said in 1809, nature intended me for the tranquil pursuits of science,
[00:43:16] which is what he was into by rendering them my supreme delight. But the enormities of the times in which I have lived have forced me to take a part in resisting them and to commit myself on the boisterous ocean of political passions. The founding fathers to your point Jal and Chimath were vehemently committed to the United States being a free market, being a place where people could pursue with absolute liberty their interests in business, in science, in life. And the
[00:43:49] action of political office of getting elected to a political office was out of a requirement to serve out of civil service to this country service to the nation and service to the enablement of the freedoms that allow us to do the things that we choose and want to do. And if you look at the wealth that's been accumulated by these career politicians, it is no surprise that they are attacking Sachs and Bessant and Lenik
[00:44:14] and Kelly Laughler and all of these other elected or appointed officials in this government who have had success in private life and who have chosen out of a commitment to patriotism to spend their time rather than making money in private life. they have enough money but to try and get the government and the country on the track that they hope it will go on. And I think that that is the key difference between those who see this article for what it is and those
[00:44:46] who read it to reaffirm their I would say violent opposition to what is this current administration and the challenge that's ahead. So, I think it's a real roar shock test when you read these articles and you look at Sachs and others in this administration and the choices that they've made to say, are they doing it to grift or are they doing it because they don't need to grift? Let me just also say this, proof is in the
[00:45:11] pudding. If we send experts to Washington DC, if you look at Sax's early track record, you got the stable coin stuff done. We just talked about how competitive the AI market is. We talked about building more energy. This, you know, and again, I disagree with a lot of the things in the Trump administration. The thing I don't disagree with and I fully endorse is the experts and the great job they're doing.
[00:45:34] Howard Lutnick's crushing it. You're crushing it. All these regulations that you've gotten done early and often are making crypto legal, a legal framework for crypto, which by the way, the last two administrations, the 45th and the 46th didn't get done. You got it done in six months, right? There's already a track record here. If you send experts, they'll get expert done on time on on on startup speed. So like what? Let's talk
[00:45:59] about the results as well. Yeah. I mean, look, they don't want the results. I mean, they consider the results to be a negative. And what they're trying to do is criminalize policy disagreements. That's really what's going on. Now, at one point, my comm's person who was dealing with the New York Times asked them, you know, what friends are you talking about? Like what friends did he benefit? And they couldn't name a specific one. I think this is why you guys why they mentioned all in tequila and the all-in summit is
[00:46:23] I think maybe they're trying to portray you guys as the friends who benefited somehow we sold more say I summit. Let me just say one thing on allin. We can't get speakers to come on the show because of the association with the Trump administration. We lost money on that event in June that I spent 12 days of my life working on. It was a pain in my ass. There was no personal benefit to us for any of this. There's no grifting going on. It's honestly a pain in the ass. We do it for Sachs because he
[00:46:46] wanted us to help him out with putting that event on. Saxs, now you're part time on the show. We have You're here. From the get- go, it was a nonprofit event. We did not sell tickets. We gave them all away for free. If we wanted to make money, you sell tickets. We didn't do that. Two sponsors that put money in to help defay the cost cuz we spent like a million plus dollars on this thing. They got their logo on the video. Not even in the live event. It was just on the video
[00:47:08] when we put it on YouTube, which was our Disc. Let's move on. Disgot the odd to the New York Times. But there's no benefit to all in. There's no benefit to all in. and and and the fact that they had to throw that in kind of show if you ask me, but yeah, I concur. It's because they kitchen sink this thing to try and create the illusion that there was something there. All right. So, we knew this would take over the show because we're all hot onto the collar and we all know you're doing
[00:47:32] a great job there. We want more experts. The job description is to have us win AI. Yes, that's what they're accusing me of is basically doing my job. Congratulations. You did a great job and now we're going to lie about you in the New York Times. But you're friends with Jensen Hang and now Jensen can sell chips. Oh my god. Do you want to show the fact check? It's so crazy. It's crazy. The fact check. This guy is the CEO of the largest company in the world for years.
[00:47:56] He's been meticulously designing these chips for 30 years. Before Before Sax could even spell H100, he had made them for gamers. He was making video game cards ago. Okay, wait. We got I got to show this an example of how dishonest they are. So, they would send us these fact checks every couple weeks. Okay. Okay. So, here's the real email, Sachs. They were sending you bullet point after bullet points. This section starts at bullet point number 33. It's obviously one of many emails you got.
[00:48:25] What they do in these fact checks is they basically take the story that they're planning to write and just break it up into chunks and then they give you like 24 hours to respond to each sentence or paragraph and say whether you know you agree or disagree with it and give you the chance to make a statement. That's what a fact check is. So this is the story they were planning on writing which is in the spring Sax
[00:48:45] had dinner with Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong in Washington. They discussed several foreign export issues. During the dinner Sax heard a convincing counterargument that selling American chips to rivals including China will get those nations hooked on US tech. Sachs then took that argument to the White House and pushed officials to eliminate binary restrictions etc etc. There's just one problem with this narrative. There was no such dinner.
[00:49:08] We checked my schedule. They made up the dinner. No, we checked everyone's schedules. There is no dinner. So, they've got a source who's just making this up. And how does the New York Times respond? They just delete the dinner, but they don't delete any other part of this. But if your source has already been caught fabricating a dinner at which this conversation supposedly took place, it's totally discredited. They're trying to intimidate you. They kind of create this insinuation
[00:49:33] that somehow I'm being influenced through friendships. But then it turns out that those friendships don't even exist. I mean, they're just people I met after I joined the administration in a lot of cases. So, in any event, look, I think the audience of the show knows my views on AI because I've been publicly advocating for them for a past year. And you've had scrutiny. We ask you hard questions every week here. We bust your chops and and force you to explain these
[00:49:56] positions and and we uh we we stress test them with you and the audience stress testes them. That's that's like a gift to the American people. And I think it's very hard for people to contemplate the idea that folks who are significantly wealthy don't actually need to self-deal. Like they just don't need it. And the truth is the folks who are trying to build a career in politics are the ones who are necessarily going to self-deal because that's the path to wealth for them. And if you've already found your
[00:50:31] found your path to wealth, you don't need to self-deal. And I think it's just so hard for people to gro that. Yeah. It's hard to understand that somebody is losing a massive amount of money serving their country. I for one thank you for losing all of his money and going and serving the country. I'm very proud. Even if people don't agree with your politics, even if I don't agree with everything you say or do, Saxs, uh again, I never doubt your integrity and your intentions. And I never once
[00:50:55] thought that you would be someone who would ever selfdeal or engage in any sort of grift or corruption. And I'll say that just personally having known you for a very long time. Great. I appreciate that. Thank you. I'm mad at you because you didn't sell me everything at 50% discount. Yeah. Where's the first time I heard it? I was I've been so angry this whole clip thinking what what where was my call? Oh my god. I would have given you 55%. Give it to me. Hey, I would have bought it.
[00:51:24] No text Another story that's been uh trending is the uh new poverty line and some of these incoming tax laws. Mike Green, an investor and fund manager, went viral last week for claiming the US poverty line math is very wrong. Historically, the poverty line has been measured as three times the cost of a minimum food diet in 1963 adjusted for inflation. Based on that measures, the poverty line for a family is set at $31,000 in 2025.
[00:51:53] Green says the real number is over 4x higher at 140,000. He gets that number by factoring the cost of childare which has surpassed housing as the largest average expense. He says measuring this number for decades has quietly broken America and it could explain why America's middle class feels poorer despite healthy GDP and historically low unemployment 4.x which we've talked about here. Chimath, your thoughts. I read this I found his claim to be
[00:52:20] pretty shocking. So, I just I wanted to dig into it. That's why I asked that we talked about it. Nick, you can probably link to it, but yeah, this thing went viral. And basically, it's exactly what you said, Jason. Food costs used to be a third of living costs. And so, food used to cost 10,000. You would multiply it by three and say, well, the total cost of living is 33,000. That's the poverty line. And then what the government did
[00:52:43] was they created a whole bunch of staircase incentives to get people from about 33,000 to about 2x that number to about 65,000. And then after that you were mostly on your own where there were no real benefits like SNAP or other things. But what this person was saying is like hey hold on a second food costs are now five or 6%. And so if you gross it up for the other components, shouldn't the poverty line be something closer to 140k? And that's a shocking claim. And
[00:53:14] so I just spent a little bit of time looking into it. Now he has subsequently come back and refined some of the things he said. I think he may have written it in a heated moment. So for example, when he looked at that number, he wasn't looking at national averages. He was looking at a bunch of data from a high-cost suburb of New York City. I think it was like Essex County. And so if you look at the food costs plus
[00:53:39] transportation plus energy plus housing plus child care in other places that are more a median American city. The example that I think other people were using was Lynchburg, Virginia, just as an example. It does change pretty drastically. You can use this thing called the MIT living wage calculator which we did. And if you are in Lynchburg, Virginia, the income required for a family of four to meet all expenses there is not 140k, but it's about 93k. That's still quite a big difference. And when you double click
[00:54:11] into where these variances come, a lot of it looks like it's around housing and childare. And I didn't depreciate how much and how expensive child care has actually become from anywhere between$1 to $3,000 per month, which is obviously a lot of money. The other thing is that his original article was claiming that if you're above 33K but under 65K, you're actually better off staying at 33 because every time you go up, you actually lose a benefit. So the net
[00:54:41] effect is that you are becoming poorer. And it turns out that that math was actually false. When you calculate the net resources, meaning income plus benefits minus taxes and expenses, a family actually as they step up the staircase does earn more in disposable resources than a family that's earning less. There is a very specific part of though what he said which I think we should focus on which is there is an area
[00:55:11] between $45,000 a year and $63,000 a year which actually looks like a bit of a stagnation zone. So to the extent that one is to read this article, take away the kind of the buzzy title and whatnot, the thing that is important is to narrowly focus on this one issue, which is that we do have some policy failures in this zone where earning an extra dollar often results in losing a dollar of benefits like SNAP and other things. But that's a good thing to know
[00:55:44] because now we can narrowly say okay what are states and what can the federal government do for people in just this part of the valley this sort of like death valley. The last thing is the article was saying look there is no real middle class. There are the people that are above 140k and then there's everybody else in poverty. And if you look at the census data and you look at the percentage of Americans that are struggling, those that earn between 100
[00:56:11] and 200% of poverty, that percentage has actually fallen. So the good news is the American economy seems to be doing a good job of not just getting people out of poverty, but getting people out of that struggling bracket, out of that death valley, and into a place where they're making 200% of that poverty line. So they're moving up. So the article was important because I do think it starts to say, look, this
[00:56:35] affordability thing has become a buzzword. A lot of people on the left and the right are using it to try to implement and affect policy. It's really important for us to be grounded in the facts of it. And the facts are that child care costs have become an overwhelming burden for many families. We probably need to figure out a way to deal with that. Housing costs are out of control. For younger people, student
[00:56:59] debt is problematic. But on the other side, the American economy still does an incredible job of getting people from those lower rungs to multiple hundred percentages of that poverty line to get them on the way. And we just need to figure out how to push people up that staircase faster. So, and it feels like this dovetailes cham with a discussion we had a couple of weeks ago when a viral clip of Ben Shapiro talking about, hey, just opt out of New York City, opt out of San Francisco, and this whole
[00:57:27] thing looks completely different. You know, the the idea of somebody who is up and coming living in Manhattan or San Francisco is a bit crazy. And in other countries, we don't look at living in Paris or Hong Kong, you know, or Dubai as like that's where you start your career and you live in the the city center. Yeah. Freeberg, you're saying people like would move. I'm not sure. The the point I'm making is to define a poverty line for in San Francisco versus