[00:55:11] between $45,000 a year and $63,000 a year which actually looks like a bit of a stagnation zone. So to the extent that one is to read this article, take away the kind of the buzzy title and whatnot, the thing that is important is to narrowly focus on this one issue, which is that we do have some policy failures in this zone where earning an extra dollar often results in losing a dollar of benefits like SNAP and other things. But that's a good thing to know
[00:55:44] because now we can narrowly say okay what are states and what can the federal government do for people in just this part of the valley this sort of like death valley. The last thing is the article was saying look there is no real middle class. There are the people that are above 140k and then there's everybody else in poverty. And if you look at the census data and you look at the percentage of Americans that are struggling, those that earn between 100
[00:56:11] and 200% of poverty, that percentage has actually fallen. So the good news is the American economy seems to be doing a good job of not just getting people out of poverty, but getting people out of that struggling bracket, out of that death valley, and into a place where they're making 200% of that poverty line. So they're moving up. So the article was important because I do think it starts to say, look, this
[00:56:35] affordability thing has become a buzzword. A lot of people on the left and the right are using it to try to implement and affect policy. It's really important for us to be grounded in the facts of it. And the facts are that child care costs have become an overwhelming burden for many families. We probably need to figure out a way to deal with that. Housing costs are out of control. For younger people, student
[00:56:59] debt is problematic. But on the other side, the American economy still does an incredible job of getting people from those lower rungs to multiple hundred percentages of that poverty line to get them on the way. And we just need to figure out how to push people up that staircase faster. So, and it feels like this dovetailes cham with a discussion we had a couple of weeks ago when a viral clip of Ben Shapiro talking about, hey, just opt out of New York City, opt out of San Francisco, and this whole
[00:57:27] thing looks completely different. You know, the the idea of somebody who is up and coming living in Manhattan or San Francisco is a bit crazy. And in other countries, we don't look at living in Paris or Hong Kong, you know, or Dubai as like that's where you start your career and you live in the the city center. Yeah. Freeberg, you're saying people like would move. I'm not sure. The the point I'm making is to define a poverty line for in San Francisco versus
[00:58:00] Austin or Houston is incredibly different because the cost of living is dramatically different. two, three, 4x. You know, the cost of a nanny in San Francisco or New York is dramatically different than if you live 30 outside of a city center. One of the challenges America faces is government programs create an anchor. They are a shackle. They hold people back when they were supposed to be support payments. And the problem with this that this article highlights is that the supposed support payments
[00:58:32] actually create an incentive or a challenge in moving up the rung or up the ladder. It's probably the case that it is a lot easier to move up the income ladder if you're in certain parts of the country than if you're in most of the country. And so most of the country is stagnating wages, but they still feel the effects of inflation. And these government programs keep them stuck in the position that they're in. This is
[00:58:59] the spiral of socialism. The government programs that are meant to provide support to people require an increase in taxation. That revenue has to come from somewhere. that taxation ultimately leads to an attrition of economic value in that region and then you have to increase taxation more and then you end up in this spiral and we're seeing this now not just in New York where Mandani is proposing to increase taxes but across the entire West Coast. We talked about
[00:59:32] the 5% billionaire tax that's being proposed as a constitutional amendment to go on the ballot in November. There's also a major challenge underway in Oregon where the governor is now trying to figure out how to keep businesses in the state. The CEO of Columbia Sportsear, one of the biggest employers in the state, came out this week saying that his adviserss have recommended that he leave the state. And in Washington, there is a proposed bill right now to
[00:59:57] implement a 5% tax on the payroll of employees making over $125,000 per year. and Microsoft, Amazon, Costco, and some of the other big employers in that state are now trying to figure out what they should do. And in California, as you guys know, in the last couple of quarters, Tesla, Chevron, McKessan, Oracle, Charles Schwab, CB Richard Ellis, Hullet Packard have all left the state. Palanteer, SpaceX, I could go down this list because as the tax burden
[01:00:28] becomes too high on those companies and there's an alternative to them in the country, they'll leave. And then you have this spiral that happens where the people that are in that state say, "Wait a second. There's no jobs. There's no income gain. We need to increase taxation." And the tax bills get passed. Norway 2022 passed a wealth tax. The wealth tax was supposed to raise $146 million of incremental revenue per year. Instead, what happened? $54 billion of
[01:00:53] net worth left the country. And they actually had a $448 million tax loss. the taxes declined rather than Did they reverse it afterwards or No, I'm actually not sure the state of Norway. Microsoft's president Brad Smith has said that tech jobs are going to leave Washington state if this payroll tax gets passed. And this is the the cycle that's underway. And it starts with the government spending. If we
[01:01:16] didn't have the government spending the way it does, where the government's running a deficit, California is now expected to have a$50 billion plus dollar deficit, then they don't need to increase taxes. And this is the core motivation. Once you're hooked on the government for some sort of benefit, it's very hard to unhook yourself. It's very hard for a company or a union or an organization to unhook themselves and it definitionally becomes a spiral. You will not give up that benefit. And so
[01:01:39] you have to spend incrementally more and more and more and more and as you raise taxes, you end up losing the tax base and it becomes a deficit spiral. That's what leads to socialism. And we have seen it time and again. It's not a big revolution. It's not like we see where where where you go from socialism to democratic capitalism where you have a revolution in the streets. Socialism emerges slowly. It's like a quiet sort
[01:02:06] of hum and then it becomes a roar and all of a sudden you're a frog in a pot and you don't realize you're being boiled. Pull this up this clip from this is episode 7 of Allin. I don't think democracies end um with a bang. I think they end with a whimper. And I think that's been the case historically. And you know, no democracy has uh has lasted our our democracy in the US has has lasted longer uh than many. Democracies
[01:02:33] ultimately enable uh freedom of operation and free markets that um that result in in greater progress than any other governing system. The problem with progress is that progress is asymmetric. You have some people who progress at a much greater rate than most. And and it is that delta that motivates the end of that system ultimately. While everyone in the United States or the average and even the bottom quartile of the
[01:02:57] population in the US is better off than they were 50 years ago in terms of income and healthcare and shelter and access to food and access to all these things. The top 1% of the US is further ahead than the median. And it is that delta that motivates the end of democracy. And it is that is which is then perceived to be unfair about this governing system. And that ultimately results in fascism or or socialism. And then fascism results socialism ultimately restricts anyone from
[01:03:20] progression. And that's why fascism and socialism ultimately end up in in in some sort of, you know, democratic outcome. And it is a cycle. And, you know, we're kind of in this, you know, awkward phase of trying to figure out what the hell we're going to be next. And I don't think that awkward phase um is realized in the next presidential term, but it is going to be realized in our lifetime. And I think that's where we're headed. Midterms probably going to go to the Democrats in the House. And I think you're seeing Ro Kana, Gavin Esome
[01:03:45] yesterday on stage at Dealbook talked about redistributing wealth. Ro Kana is talking about redistributing wealth. This is becoming the Democrat party line and they're going to end up trying to seize this moment to take these socialist principles because everyone is feeling the burn. They're feeling the loss of benefits. They're feeling the lack of progress. They're having a tough time moving up the income ladder and they're having a tough time paying their
[01:04:05] bills. And so this is the moment where this democratic socialist movement takes foot. And probably by 2028, the presidential nominee is going to be not necessarily a self-declared, but probably a referenceable, you know, uh, socialist. Democrat socialist. Yeah, democrat socialist. I mean, best advice, have two plans. One, a state uh, that is committed to capitalism. Texas comes to mind. And number two, you kind of have to have a country as a backup plan in
[01:04:35] case this goes across the whole country. Have you guys been tracking the California wealth tax? As a former California resident, I'm curious how you're interpreting these recent moves. I think we're all seriously thinking about moving out. I mean, it's kind of crazy. But did you see I think Nuome came out and said that he was going to oppose it. Is that right? But it it doesn't matter because if uh the California voters voted in, it goes
[01:05:00] immediately into a Let's not look a gift horse in the mouth here. I think this is a moment to thank Governor Nome for representing the interests of tech logarchs like us. We really appreciate you coming out against this wealth tax. Thank you. So thank you. We really appreciate it on behalf of all the techarchs. Thank you for opposing this wealth tax. In fact, the All-In podcast endorses Gavin Newsome's support of billionaires
[01:05:27] and sent to millionaires everywhere. He supports all of us equally, even the poor sent millionaires and as high as the billionaires and even the deck of billionaires. We have some Thank you for standing up against the Bernie Sanders AOC wing of the party. Yes. If he it's somebody has to stand up against this democratic socialism and and Gavin Newsome is the guy. What do you think happens if Fitch just
[01:05:50] tax 5% of all net worth and you have a bunch of illquid private assets? What are you supposed to do? Chaos. Yeah. It's going to be a mess. By the way, what that bill Chimoff says is you can have a deferral. So, you can actually defer the tax payment, but you have to have it booked that year. So, well, you you can defer it, but you can defer it into 1/5if payable for a year for 5 years. So, that's not really a deferral. That's just installments that I think they said to 5 to 7% interest.
[01:06:22] Let's just say that we could do a financing for something that we've started, but it just all of a sudden what is a financing? It's nothing. It's somebody's guess about future value. It's has nothing to do with today's value. Right. But if a financing for a company all of a sudden would trigger a bunch of phantom tax that's due right that I I mean I'll be honest, I don't have money sitting around to pay 5% of
[01:06:46] an imputed valuation of a company that I'm in the midst of building. Look at what Sach Look at what Sachs just talked about. He had to sell his private assets at a 50% discount. Oh, I would have to I would have to exact. So, you create this like negative reflexive downward spiral. And it doesn't it doesn't stop there. So, think about where this goes. So, so yes, that's a problem for rich people. Great. No one gives a about us. No one gives a about people that have to sell highly valued private stock. But
[01:07:11] where does this go? In the proposed billionaire tax, it actually gives power and authority to the California state legislature that they can actually redo this wealth tax at a different level and a different rate in the future. Think about what that does. It now gives property seizure rights to the California state legislature to set a value level. So anyone now that's got over a hundred million net worth and
[01:07:35] then it becomes over 10 million and then anyone with a million dollar net worth and the state can take 5% of your assets every year. very quickly it becomes the process by which socialism and the socialization of assets that gets seized by the government is realized. So what's the what's the bull work on this? What how this is why I've been saying for years this is the direction we're headed because the I give you the I give you the victory.
[01:07:58] Congrats. But the root cause of it is government spending. I think it's pretty it's pretty straightforward. you just move to a state that is committed to capital capitalism and but then it becomes a federal decision and then if that doesn't work you're going to need to have an escape hatch to Dubai. We have a we have a problem in this country and the problem is too much progress. Too much progress too fast has led to a distribution of capital that is so
[01:08:22] asymmetric that Gavin Newsome said on stage yesterday 10% of the population own 2/3 of the assets. That may or may not seem right to you but that is the reality of what happens when you have progress when you build technology companies. When you build car companies when you build when America wins globally. You say America, but it's not all Americans. And this is the point. This is what's going on. Those of us who are on this Zoom and our
[01:08:48] cohort of friends are the ones who have mostly benefited from America quote winning. The rest of America has been left behind. True. And the mechanism and the mechanism for recapture, the mechanism for restoration of equality as everyone views it is these measures, these voting measures, these elected officials. Let me give it to you. I understand that's how people feel and it is true that we have this
[01:09:12] disparity in wealth. I think the counterargument that most people would make is well what is our unemployment rate? How many people around the world are trying to get into this country? And what is the status of folks coming up in this country? If we didn't have the problem with housing and education and healthcare, those are the big three. That's what I think this is really about. If you solve housing, which was solved in Texas and Florida and Nevada,
[01:09:39] they let you build supply. People don't feel as bad about their lot in life, they don't feel as bad about their progress. If we solved tuition and we paired it, like we've talked about countless times here, and the loans matched the outcomes, we would not have this. And if people felt didn't feel the fear of going bankrupt from healthcare, I think we would have a much different country. I think that's what the referendum is going to be in 2028 is those three issues. If you're going to
[01:10:04] be president, you got to solve housing and get people out of the way and build housing stock. Number two, you got to give some people some basic health care so they don't feel they're going to get bankrupt. Number three, they got to fix education. Those are the three horsemen of the apocalypse and socialism. In my opin, we will solve this problem. I think you're too rational. The way politics works is you find a group to blame and you blame them and that's how you get elected. The group runs for president.
[01:10:29] The group to blame is going to be the tech and the elite. only one of the three four of us that can. So, well, I got a kitchen cabinet, by the way. We'll just we'll run it as a Fantastic Four. I I'll be the figurehead and then we'll just sit there. Let's solve these three problems. If when I run for president, I'm going to start 10 new cities with a million houses in each. That's going to be the number one
[01:10:47] priority. Number two priority is universal healthcare for everybody using technology. GLPS, Daniel X, 3D scanner, prunovo, whatever. And then number three, I mean, just trade schools. Let's make trade schools free. just talked about electricians. We talked about generation tool belt. Let's make trade schools free or make them $20,000. You can pay it back over 20 years, $1,000 a year, no interest. You know, come up
[01:11:13] with that. That's the platform that wins versus let's raise taxes to 60%. Because you raise taxes 60%, I'll tell you what's going to happen. People going to retire and stop investing in companies. It's not worth it to go to work and give 60 or 70% of your outcome to the government. People will just stop working, which is what happened in Europe. people just like screw it. I'll just be rich. I'll stop investing. It sucks, man. I think it sucks.