[01:09:12] disparity in wealth. I think the counterargument that most people would make is well what is our unemployment rate? How many people around the world are trying to get into this country? And what is the status of folks coming up in this country? If we didn't have the problem with housing and education and healthcare, those are the big three. That's what I think this is really about. If you solve housing, which was solved in Texas and Florida and Nevada,
[01:09:39] they let you build supply. People don't feel as bad about their lot in life, they don't feel as bad about their progress. If we solved tuition and we paired it, like we've talked about countless times here, and the loans matched the outcomes, we would not have this. And if people felt didn't feel the fear of going bankrupt from healthcare, I think we would have a much different country. I think that's what the referendum is going to be in 2028 is those three issues. If you're going to
[01:10:04] be president, you got to solve housing and get people out of the way and build housing stock. Number two, you got to give some people some basic health care so they don't feel they're going to get bankrupt. Number three, they got to fix education. Those are the three horsemen of the apocalypse and socialism. In my opin, we will solve this problem. I think you're too rational. The way politics works is you find a group to blame and you blame them and that's how you get elected. The group runs for president.
[01:10:29] The group to blame is going to be the tech and the elite. only one of the three four of us that can. So, well, I got a kitchen cabinet, by the way. We'll just we'll run it as a Fantastic Four. I I'll be the figurehead and then we'll just sit there. Let's solve these three problems. If when I run for president, I'm going to start 10 new cities with a million houses in each. That's going to be the number one
[01:10:47] priority. Number two priority is universal healthcare for everybody using technology. GLPS, Daniel X, 3D scanner, prunovo, whatever. And then number three, I mean, just trade schools. Let's make trade schools free. just talked about electricians. We talked about generation tool belt. Let's make trade schools free or make them $20,000. You can pay it back over 20 years, $1,000 a year, no interest. You know, come up
[01:11:13] with that. That's the platform that wins versus let's raise taxes to 60%. Because you raise taxes 60%, I'll tell you what's going to happen. People going to retire and stop investing in companies. It's not worth it to go to work and give 60 or 70% of your outcome to the government. People will just stop working, which is what happened in Europe. people just like screw it. I'll just be rich. I'll stop investing. It sucks, man. I think it sucks.
[01:11:36] I think there's a clear path out. There is a clear path out. Solve the three big I think. I think look, I think AI is a path if we get if leverage into the hands of every person in the United States in the world. If we get abundant free energy through new energy systems and if we can extend human lifespan and health span, I think those are the three abundance vectors. And if those three vectors hit, I think all bets are off.
[01:11:59] and um and we can get out of this nasty spiral. But I do think we have the choice every day. Do we want to go into the enlightenment or do we want to go into the dark ages? I keep saying that. Let's solve those three big problems. All right, listen. Another amazing episode of the Allin podcast. I think Jake just announced he's running for president. I'm ask presidentjason.com. Go ahead. Is Jeff Bezos going to be your running
[01:12:18] mate? JL is running. He did say Bezos could be your VP. Oh. Um Oh, no wait. Jamie Diamond and Bezos. Go to boosted. com if you want to buy merch. I got this great pink hat on the pink hat. Oh, man. We're We're also vested in your success when you didn't allow any of us to invest in your company. Thanks, bestie. Yeah, we all feel so vested. Uh go I I supported Freeberg for the last five years, made him famous, and all I got was an Ohalo hat. How about you, Chamal?
[01:12:47] You got a quarter the equity? You got a hat? I got a hat. And I invested in his three companies that failed. I got a hat, but I have no Oh Can you just give us 10 bips each in Ohio so we can end this? No, I'll take a hat. I'll take a free hat. You'll take the hat or 10 bips. How about five bips in a hat? I'll take a hat. I'll take some advice. Don't tell people you're running for president. That's my That's my tip for you. I'm being facitious. Can I get a uh Parker? Do you have a mug?
[01:13:13] Gentlemen, I got to go. Love you. Take care. All right, everybody. Love you besties. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. We'll let your winners ride. And it said we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you queen of winners. Besties are gone. That is my dog taking your driveways. Oh man. Myasher will eat. We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless.
[01:13:53] It's like this like sexual tension that you just need to release somehow. Your feet. That's going to be good. We need to get merch. I'm going all in. I'm going all in.