[01:11:55] class for 2023 prediction? Sultan of Science, Queen of Quinoa, Dave Friedberg. Uh, it's it's really simple. I've mentioned it before. It's consumer credit. We assumed that raising rising rates and inflation would taper down consumer uh, demand can meaning consumers buying goods and stuff and that certainly hasn't happened. I would I'm in Vegas right now. I was in the car yesterday and the driver grew up in Vegas. Uh, he's like,
[01:12:22] I In all the I've lived my whole life in Vegas. He's like, I've never seen a December like we just had. It was packed the entire month. He's like, normally in Vegas it's dead up until Christmas and then New Year's people come in for town, but it's normally dead. He's like, I've never seen such a busy month. And I think we see this in the numbers. Consumers are still spending like it's 2021. They're still spending like
[01:12:40] interest rates are zero. As we talked about, um, consumer credit is skyrocketing while rates are skyrocketing. Um, and so I think we're going to run into a real wall with respect to consumer credit in um, uh, sometime this year and you're going to see As As you guys know, this is such a complicated interwoven market of assets that the way that this this can be traded, there's a lot of different ways to trade it, but I think it's going
[01:13:04] to be in general, consumers are not going to be able to meet their debt obligations and it's going to be really ugly. Could be mortgages, could be credit card debt. Defaults are coming. Yeah, and Yeah, if you're putting So, the market's The market has priced in a bunch of this stuff. Obviously, companies like Affirm and, you know, the the um, what are they called? Buy now, pay later companies, but credit card companies, mortgages,
[01:13:25] there's a lot of assets that you can start to kind of pick apart. Where do you think this unravels first? How does it What gets hit hardest? What's underpriced and overpriced? Probably a lot of good pair trading to do as Chamath kind of loves to talk about uh, with respect to which of these are more likely or less likely to be sensitive to this dynamic, but there's I think it's pretty It's going to be a pretty ugly
[01:13:42] scene. Uh, consumers just have way too much debt relative to their earnings right now and it's pretty nasty. And they have some confidence that they'll always have a job or some way to pay their four easy payments for their Vegas trip. I'd say it's it's hard It's Muscle memory is serious. You know, you come out of 2021 when you had um, it's not just stimulus checks, it was the low interest rate and and easy credit
[01:14:03] availability everywhere and it's just easy to jump into getting new stuff and cool stuff. And then when you get used to getting new stuff every week or every month, you kind of stick with it and you're like, I don't want to give it up just yet. I just I just yet. Not just yet. You know, and so it's it's hard to kind of step back from spending when you have a new type of lifestyle and I think that's what's going on. I think this is
[01:14:21] an incredible observation. Yeah. There's a great TikTok of this guy that runs car dealerships and he sent them out unlike how much incredible money like what a significant percentage of people's income they were spending on their monthly car payments. And people buy these cars that are well beyond what should be kind of a reasonable budget if you were to go to Suze Orman for advice. She's like, you're not buying that
[01:14:41] freaking car. They stretch and the the stretching is going to is going to snap this year. Yeah. Absolutely, which brings us to the most anticipated trend. I love it. Great one. Most anticipated trend of 2023
[01:17:36] related to He was kind of an outcast when he got elected the first time and that may be the case now, but he still got elected because the population loved him. People loved him. Is that going to happen? Do you think that means that the populism is kind of waning or the interest of the the voters is waning on him or is it just the political parties' alignment with only Boebert only won by a few thousand votes. She didn't exactly crush
[01:17:56] it in Colorado. I think a lot of this has to do with Trump's personal standing after the midterms. The candidates that he personally picked that were all in tough races, they all basically lost. It was about the distraction he caused by making the 2020 election such a big deal, constantly looking backwards. So, I think the Republican Party doesn't like the antics. It's not about the policies, I don't think. I think it's
[01:18:19] 100% about the about Trump's electability and about his ability to get things done and it's not really about the positions per se. So, I think, Friedberg, to answer your question, I think that the future of the GOP will incorporate this populism, but it's going to find a better integration with the establishment wing of the Republican Party and future candidates will have to basically satisfy both of those wings of
[01:18:44] the party. Sachs, was it Was it a straw that were maybe the two straws that broke the camel's back for Republicans and Trump in that relationship? Was it January 6th and the election denial? Like for Republicans, is it just like, come on. Those are the two things? This constant focusing on the 2020 election. First, it cost them the cost Republicans that Georgia runoff seat with Perdue against Warnock. Perdue won on election
[01:19:08] night, didn't clear 50%, had to go to the runoff. This was happened the day before January 6th. This happened on January 5th of 2021. That was the first race where Trump's antics cost him. Then you had this midterm election where, you know, all the candidates who had to appease Trump by talking about again, the last election instead of looking to the future, they got punished by the the voters. I think Republicans want to win.
[01:19:33] I mean, they're tired of losing. It's that simple. Yeah, the job of a politician is to win. Freeberg, you got an anticipated trend of 2023. I am excited about and want to share the point of view that I think I'm selling gene therapies are becoming more mainstream. So, these are pharmaceutical modalities where we use uh gene editing systems where you can actually go in and change or add uh genetic material to cells in your body
[01:20:01] to resolve things like genetic diseases or change protein deficiencies or introduce new proteins. And then cell therapies where we engineer cells, put them in the body, and those cells go and do things like attack and destroy cancer cells, for example. There are currently 27 FDA approved cell and gene therapies on the market. There are over a thousand in clinical trials, many of which are already showing extraordinary efficacy
[01:20:24] and benefit. Today, these therapies cost upwards of a million dollars. So, I think there's a massive, and talking about the infrastructure investment conversation earlier, because of the number of diseases, and the number of conditions, and the number of people that these therapies can treat, I think there's massive infrastructure investment opportunity coming forward this year, but also seeing these come to
[01:20:42] market, come out of the clinical trials, get FDA approved, we have to ramp up and build up the infrastructure needed because it's not traditional where you make a drug in a factory and send it to people and they get it injected. These are much more complex. They require a much more complicated delivery mechanism. You have to have systems to engineer cells and edit them and put them back in your body. Those systems today take days or
[01:21:02] weeks and cost, you know, as a result, a million dollar plus per treatment. So, I think that um the cell and gene therapy opportunity, you know, the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference starts this week. Uh it's the biggest biotech and healthcare conference in the world. Starts in San Francisco on Monday. This is uh one of the biggest areas of interest and and one that everyone's investing against. Um but as these come
[01:21:22] to market, there's, you know, we talked about this last week, genetic diseases, types of cancer that are going to be addressed, and I'm really excited about seeing more of these products come to market and seeing the whole kind of infrastructure and delivery system change. All right, sorry to interrupt. Trying to keep the trains moving. Gene editing, very good choice. All right. We end with this. It's a little bit fun.
[01:21:41] Most anticipated media for 2023. These are things we like to talk about the media here sometimes. We talked about White Lotus season 2, amazing season, and maybe what you're looking forward to next year. I am really looking forward to in film, Oppenheimer, Christopher Nolan's movie about the Manhattan Project. That should be extraordinary. I loved uh was Dunkirk his as well? I loved Dunkirk. I like everything he
[01:22:05] does. And when he this is him becoming like a history uncle, I I'm here for it. I'm here for Nolan becoming our history uncle instead of Batman. What was the one after Inception though that was really confusing? The one with Denzel Washington's son, with John Washington. Uh yes, um it was um I couldn't finish it. I tried twice. I I got I got to stop I got to go a third shot on that one. It was Oh, yeah, it was it was his worst
[01:22:28] film. What's the name of the film? I can't remember. It was called uh Tenet. Tenet. Tenet. Yes, about like time in reverse in this. It was a It was impossible to follow. Did you guys see his original film, which was incredible, Memento? Of course. Memento was fantastic. Yeah, Memento was great. And it was like it was enough it was enough mind mind Yeah, it was mind-bending enough that you're like, "Oh my god, incredible."
[01:22:49] And then I think they took it too far. Tenet, I tried to watch it three times. I'm generally pretty good with these sorts of films and love them, but oh my god, it was impossible to follow. He he took it too far. Okay. So, hopefully he goes back to his roots. In terms of TV series, I'm looking forward to Succession coming back, Ahsoka, who is uh Anakin Skywalker, aka Darth Vader's uh Padawan, Ted Lasso season 3 coming up. Those are for me
[01:23:13] incredible. And then on the book front, man, the Michael Lewis book about SBF is going to be next level. I cannot wait for that. Sachs, you're a media junkie. What do you got on your list of things you're looking forward to? Or should I say what does Tucker's writers, what do they put down for you? Well, J Cal, I thought you were going to pick I I thought that for movie you were going to pick Cocaine Bear. I can't wait for Cocaine Bear. Cocaine
[01:23:34] Bear does look really amazing. Cocaine Bear does look good. Extraordinary. A bear is in the woods and a I guess people who are trafficking in cocaine drop their or crashes and the bear eats the cocaine and then goes on a rampage. It's kind of like a a genre film like in the Crocodile way. By the way, I'm I'm listening to Quentin Tarantino's book, by the way, of criticism. Get the audio book. You'll like it, Sachs. He talks about all the films in
[01:24:01] the '70s. Very good. Shout out to Quentin. What do you got? What do you got on your short list? Uh history uncle. Me? Yeah, what do you got? Well, I I just gave you one. Okay, Cocaine Bear top of your list. Oppenheimer was on my list, and I think uh Marvel is doing a good job developing a new villain to rival Thanos with this with Kang. I don't know what phase they're on now, but Loki season 2 and then the new Ant-Man movie and
[01:24:28] you know, I thought after Thanos you wouldn't really be able to top that, but they've come up with a really good concept, I think, for the next, you know, 20 Marvel movies. Well, and then it will eventually become Galactus, yeah. You guys have completely [ __ ] up. You have missed the most obvious slam dunk. Sade's new album, go. Dune part two. Oh, I haven't watched number one yet. I got to watch Wait, what? You know, I what happened was
[01:24:54] wasn't it? My wife wants to watch it. It is so stylistically beautiful. It is a little boring. There's not a lot going on. But it's so well shot. It's a It's visually just stunning. I mean, if you need to watch it on a big screen with big speakers and uh but part two comes out in November this year. Absolutely. Okay. Freeberg, tell us what documentary on veganism do you recommend and you're anticipating for 2023? What
[01:25:20] vegan documentary or animal abuse documentary I am excited about the generative AI-based media that I think is going to start to kind of rocket this year. We could see, for example, the first, you know, AI-written symphony, the first kind of AI-written published novel. How interesting would that be, like a full novel published by AI? And and more, maybe short films based on an AI-driven script. And maybe even, what what I'm really
[01:25:49] excited about is these AI-based interactive video games or um kind of experiences where you, the user, kind of get to create and live your own world uh through some sort of video game type uh modality. So, um I think AI-driven media All right. There you have it, folks. There are Speaking of pop culture chaos, I guess Prince Harry has a book coming out that's called Spare. Despair? Spare. You know, like pick up a
[01:26:14] spare when you're playing uh bowling? No, but you know, like in in the English monarchy, they there's the heir and the spare. Uh So, he's calling himself spare. But to me, that's like a weird self-description. Yeah, like that's that's how you see yourself as just self-deprecating. He didn't pick that. They They paid him so much money. I I heard they have to sell 1.7 million books to break even. But you know what
[01:26:37] it reminds me of is um when Leonard Nimoy wrote a book, I think he wrote a book called I Am Spock, and then he wrote a book called I Am Not Spock. Nice. He could never get comfortable with the fact that he was just Spock. Yeah. And there's something weird about calling yourself spare, like, you know, you're clearly not comfortable with It's like everything Yeah, everything they taught you everything I learned at
[01:27:01] Harvard Business School and everything they don't teach at Harvard Business School. You can You can do both books. All right, listen. This has been great. Breaking news as we're talking here, ChatGPT OpenAI doing a tender offer at 29 billion. With no revenue, losing 3 billion a day. Oh my god, who is buying Well, it's it's it's Founders Fund well, reportedly, according to the Journal, it's Founders Fund and Thrive Capital. So, Founders
[01:27:26] Fund does not generally do super overpriced deals. Yeah. I I Yeah, I would buy that. That's a silly bet. I mean, come on. That I mean, dude, are you kidding me? That's That could be a 300 billion dollar company. That's a 10x. Right, but that Yeah, it's You think it's a 10x from here? I wouldn't I wouldn't not. Totally could be. By the way, do you guys remember that the um the origin of OpenAI? I don't know what the current situation
[01:27:48] is, but it was a non-profit where they said investors put money in, but the investors' maximum return was a 100x on the dollar invested. So, it's a non-profit, but it's a profit up to 100x. No, no, that happened afterwards. It's when they converted original model. No, the No, the original model was a pure They converted it to a for-profit. No, no, the the original model was a pure non-profit where there was no cap because there was no concept
[01:28:09] of equity. Yeah. When they flipped, they capped everybody to a 100x on the return. So, the original money But not anymore or still? But you know, the original money, which was like Elon's money, who else put in money? Reid. Yeah. All that money came in as a as pure non-profit. So, I don't know how it converted, but that's when they Or did it convert? Did those people who funded it originally get any shares in
[01:28:32] the for-profit? We could We could find out. Probably they did. I mean, it would make sense that they would. We'll find out. We'll eventually find out. But I mean, wait, if this is a tender offer for 1% of the company billion? You wouldn't buy shares at 27 billion? So, again like the the thing that I want to impress upon you is like there is an enormous amount of work that they do that what their biggest gap to
[01:28:52] monetizing this will be finding unique content that they learn on that nobody else has access to. And this is why I I really think it's important to understand, if you have enough compute, these all of these unsupervised learning models, if you run them on the same training set, will converge to the same answer. So, you're just getting there first. So, in In to be really defensible, you have to get there in a unique way. And so
[01:29:19] either you're going to hand tune or you're going to have inputs that are different. So I don't know I don't know the answer. That's why like they they have to answer that question in their fundraising and I'm sure that they did because these are smart investors. But that's the big idea that you have to overcome. And again, you have to think like you think Google is sitting on their hands? No. Google is sitting on a competitor they haven't
[01:29:40] launched. billion? Like what fundamentals is that based on? Like why not 5 billion? Why not 3 billion? I mean like why not 10 billion? Like what makes it their last valuation. That's what it is. It's all this is all momentum. It's had nothing to do with reality, right? I mean It this would imply at a 30 the public comps of the Google trades at what? 25 or 30 times EBITDA? So this would imply a billion dollars in