[00:57:29] won't be as muted and it won't fall off a cliff as people want. So, that's my big contrarian That's my big contrarian Got it. wager for this year is that we see inflation we see wage inflation that keeps inflation not going down as much as people want. This is contrarian because everybody's saying, "Hey, it's over." The consumer's back has been broken, the credit card debt is high, and everybody's being laid off, yada
[00:57:53] yada yada. Therefore, goods and services, there'll be more supply than demand and the prices will lower. Very contrarian. Free break, do you have a contrarian belief for 2023? I think my it follows my earlier points about the Saudi China Russian Russia trade this year exiting 2023. It may be the case that, you know, there's historically been this belief and this continuing belief that the US dollar will always be the de facto
[00:58:24] global reserve currency. And the current mantra is that it's better than the rest. Everyone else is worse off than the US, Western Europe is in trouble, Japan is in trouble, China is in trouble, everyone's in trouble. But if there was a coalition, an economic coalition, a a scaled economic coalition that starts to shift the balance of power a little bit and the US meanwhile is taking on extraordinary debt load,
[00:58:50] spending $1.7 trillion in an omnibus bill, you know, has this massive unfunded social security problem coming down the pipe and are trying to manage multiple funded conflicts around the world, it could be that the US dollar coming out of 2023 starts to trade more like a risk asset and less like a risk-free asset. And so, I think that that's my big contrarian bet is that maybe this year marks the beginning of the end of
[00:59:14] the US dollar as the kind of global de facto reserve currency based on some of these big trades that I talked about happening. Unbelievable. that that would be my um my big kind of contrarian. Perfectly said. That's your contrarian bet, the ax- the legion of dictators, the MBS's, etc. They become they form a new global currency. My turn, not your turn. I'm not calling it a Yeah, I wouldn't say a legion of dictators and I wouldn't say form a new
[00:59:41] global currency, but I do think that the fact that that large economic trading models start to be done in non-dollar denominated form Got it. you know, weakens the the kind of reserve status of the dollar to some degree, not fully, right? It doesn't happen in a binary way. And then the dollar starts to trade more like asset like other currencies do to some degree, not fully. So, maybe maybe this is the year we start to see that shift. Once
[01:00:07] again, I take the exact opposite of your contrarian belief. I believe American exceptionalism continues to soar as Russia, China, Saudi Arabia to a lesser extent continue to self-sabotage themselves with insane wars like Putin has done or cutting off the heads of entrepreneurs in China, figuratively I'm saying here. I think you cannot have exceptionalism without entrepreneurs, without people having freedom, and I
[01:00:34] think that means American exceptionalism based on freedom is going to continue and the legion of dictators, I believe, are going to stab each other in the back before they change the world or move the currency. You can't trust them. They'll they'll snip at each other. And or they'll self-sabotage themselves like Putin did in Ukraine. What do you fall on? Our opposite here. I think that America is really feeling its weedies right now. I
[01:00:57] think that American power is immense. I think that the superiority of our weapons in Ukraine has been one of the big surprises of the war. Let's go Chamath Lucky. I don't see the world in the simplistic good guys versus bad guys frame that Jake out does. However, America is on turbo right now and yes, it is true that the BRICS would love to get off of the dollar because we are now using the dollar and the financial
[01:01:22] system and Swift as a as a geopolitical tool and a weapon and they would very much like to be off of our dependence on our currency, but I don't think they're anywhere close to be able to do that yet and like I said, America is on turbo right now. Now, I one thing one thing I want to mention, this statistic came out, White House correspondent named Jennifer Jacobs just reported that the US has agreed to send Bradley
[01:01:47] armored vehicles, basically our best tanks, to Ukraine. Previously US officials had balked at sending armored vehicles saying heavier weapons be too difficult for Ukraine to operate and maintain, but allies are moving to provide such weapons. So, we keep providing the Ukrainians with more and more sophisticated weapons, more and more support. Like I said, this is leading up to a huge Ukrainian counteroffensive in the spring.
[01:02:11] And I really don't know what's going to happen at that point. I do think that the Russians will escalate. I don't think they can afford to lose this war. They view it as existential. And I like I said, I hope cooler heads will prevail and if the Ukrainians are successful at breaking through, I hope that the Biden administration will shut this down before they try to take retake Crimea because you know, we've discussed this before. I
[01:02:33] think the Russians confronted with a choice between a total defeat that includes losing Crimea and their naval base at Sevastopol and sees the Ukrainian flag flying over their base at Sevastopol. If if it's a choice between that or potentially using a tactical nuke maybe at the mouth of the Crimean Peninsula as a firewall. I think they could choose the nuke option. So, it's a very dangerous situation and you know, very very dynamic. There's a
[01:03:03] lot of possibilities. All right, let's go on to best performing asset of 2023. I'm going with seed stage investing again. I don't think people want to get into these toxic cap tables at the late stages Chamath pointed out. So, I go with seed stage and you know, and up to series A, the people brave enough to place bets, the founders brave enough to start companies. I believe it's the best performing asset class of 2023. Chamath,
[01:03:22] what do you got? I think that there's still a lot of uncertainty in the world and in the markets. And so, I'm generally concerned that there's a lot of chop. And so, I pick something that's pretty conservative. But, I would have a combination of cash and the front end of the yield curve. So, T-bills all the way up to two-year bonds. So, you can generate four and a half, probably by the end of this year, 5% pretty safely
[01:03:52] owning this stuff while you wait for things to become more certain. And the way that I think about it is that I would rather miss the first 10 or 15% of a rally once we're really done with stuff than try to overcorrect and try to pick a bottom just because I think that you could lose a lot of money. So, I think the goal for this year is to stay resilient and in the game. And so, owning having a bunch of cash on the
[01:04:23] sidelines ready to pound it in. Meanwhile, a portion of it collecting 5% is not such a bad thing while you wait for the bottom. Fantastic. My answer was actually very very similar, which is if Kashkari is right that rates are going to 5.4% in Q1, why wouldn't you just put all your money in short-term T-bills? You earn 5, 5 and 1/2% risk-free. Yeah. Like set it and forget it. Yeah. And that's why capital flows are moving hugely right now from
[01:04:49] equities into bonds. Especially if we're going to a recession, which is inherently deflationary. What do you got, Freeberg? Performing asset class of 2023. One of the things So, I think it's inevitable that we continue to have significant infrastructure spending from both the stimulus and security point of view. So, you know, we kind of want to continue to stimulate the economy and and support growth. We want to continue
[01:05:15] to create jobs and support this transition in the if this if the recession predictions play out true and the job market does loosen, it's very tight right now. There's going to be even more of an impetus to continue to do infrastructure investment, but I think there's also these big economic transitions happening underway right now with pharmaceuticals, with semiconductors, with energy. There's a lot that we've talked about
[01:05:40] where there's a security problem and a redundancy problem. And so, you know, there there are a couple of ways to kind of play this infrastructure spending thesis in each of those areas. I've kind of highlighted four of them. One is in semiconductor capital equipment. So, okay, like Ten Core, Applied Materials, that that that range of businesses that provide and sell the equipment into the the fabs and the and
[01:06:01] the organizations that build semiconductor manufacturing facilities. Uh the second is kind of an oil and gas services. So, similar to what Sax said earlier, Schlumberger, Baker Hughes, that class of businesses I think benefit in this in this environment. And this is independent of kind of economic conditions certainly cuz these are big multi-year spending projects. The third is in the the equipment to support them. So, Deere and Caterpillar.
[01:06:27] And then the fourth I think is an important one. I'll talk about this in a minute with respect to my biggest kind of anticipated thing for next year, which is in a pharmaceutical infrastructure. So, Thermo Fisher and there's some company and others like them because there's a lot of buildout happening to support these big transitions happening in the modalities that are being used in pharmaceutical drugs and diagnostics.
[01:06:48] And then I think that there's also a couple of these businesses that are diversified like Danaher, Honeywell. Thermo Fisher is a good example that play across multiple of these um of these opportunities. So, those are those are all great businesses to own and you don't need to worry about, you know, they're they're they're growing cash flow positive, dividend paying companies and you don't need to worry about, you
[01:07:07] know, am I getting 5% or 5 and 1/2% based on the equity price this year? These are long-range businesses that are building real value, growing their top line and compounding value from within. And then they're acquiring a lot of smaller businesses very cheap. I'll say what it's an important trend I've seen across these companies, Danaher, Honeywell, Thermo Fisher. They buy small companies. They pay very little and they
[01:07:27] immediately get massive return on invested capital. Like they're in the the high teens. So, why get 5% on T-bills when you can get high teens ROIC uh on the management teams running these incredible platforms. So, that's where I I'm most excited for this year. That was like my mad that was like my my mad my mad money segment. I've never done the mad money segment before, but there you guys go. Worst performing
[01:07:51] asset. I I went with energy because not that I think it's not important, but it just feels like it everybody rushed into it in 2022. So, it feels like it's overheated and if we are in a recession, people might lower consumption in terms of energy and be looking for cheaper alternatives. So, it could be overheated. So, I went with energy. Chamath, worst performing asset? You got one? I think that if we've learned anything
[01:08:13] from the last three years, you have to separate the valuation of a company and how it performs in the stock market with its value in society. So, for example, if you look at Zoom, Zoom's valuation has cratered, but its value in society has probably continued to go up. It's still a massively relied upon tool. The point is that markets do not give you credit for the value in society. They will give you credit when you are
[01:08:38] about to overearn, but then they'll pull it all back when they think that you're going to under-earn. So, in that lens, I think that tech will have a tough year. I think energy will have a really [ __ ] year. And probably the biggest asset class that is going to get pressured is going to be junk debt. And the reason is a bunch of these variable rate loans when rates are at 5 and 6% that all of a sudden are like 11,
[01:09:08] 12, 13, 14% coupons, a a bunch of companies will have trouble meeting their debt obligations and will have to restructure the debt or will have to file. So, Tech, energy, worst performing asset for 2023. A subcategory of what Chamath just said. I think office towers in San Francisco are that is some serious toxic debt. 27% vacancy rates and growing as leases roll. Uh, I think that a lot of these buildings maybe virtually all of the San
[01:09:38] Francisco downtown is going to be owned by the bank soon. Because no one can meet their estate in San Francisco and Well, specifically the office towers. Specifically the office towers cuz no one wants to be in those those skyscraper buildings south of Market, you know, mired in homelessness. So, um, yeah. I mean, I think that a lot of these buildings are going to be owned by the banks. There's going to be some
[01:09:56] major fire sales. Remember, this was the hottest commercial real estate market in the country a few years ago and now it's the worst. Well, look what happened to Look what happened to BREET. What do you think about that crazy thing that happened with the Blackstone REIT? I mean, that's nuts. Explain what happened. Yeah. Blackstone has a product called BREET. It's like a $70 billion exchange-traded fund effectively. And
[01:10:19] what it is is the ability for individual investors to own access to Blackstone's, you know, commercial real estate portfolio. And they had such a massive amount of redemptions that they had to close redemptions at the end of Q4. And they were worried that the redemptions were going to continue to go up. These are individual investors who basically sees the writing on the wall as David said and wants their money out.
[01:10:42] And so they went to the University of California pension system and they essentially got a huge infusion of capital. I think it was about $4 billion where they guaranteed 11 and 1/2% interest to these guys for the $4 billion. And they also posted a billion dollars of their own equity in in the actual REIT to backstop it. So, what does it show you? I think what Sachs is saying is really right. It's It may not just be in San Francisco, but,
[01:11:10] you know, with all of these people either getting laid off, with all of these people now working remotely, we may finally start to see the beginning of the reckoning in commercial real estate, which has been an unbelievably performant asset class up until right about now. And And on top of that, you have to factor in these much higher rates and so these building owners, if they financed it, which they invariably have always
[01:11:31] financed, they have huge variable rate payments that are due on these buildings, the rent rolls are lower, even people like Twitter is just refusing to pay the rent. So, you have to take them to court. So, it it elongates when they have to pay. And so you could miss a bunch of rent payments and all of a sudden the banks could just go crazy and take ownership of these things. Okay. Do you have a worst performing asset
[01:11:55] class for 2023 prediction? Sultan of Science, Queen of Quinoa, Dave Friedberg. Uh, it's it's really simple. I've mentioned it before. It's consumer credit. We assumed that raising rising rates and inflation would taper down consumer uh, demand can meaning consumers buying goods and stuff and that certainly hasn't happened. I would I'm in Vegas right now. I was in the car yesterday and the driver grew up in Vegas. Uh, he's like,
[01:12:22] I In all the I've lived my whole life in Vegas. He's like, I've never seen a December like we just had. It was packed the entire month. He's like, normally in Vegas it's dead up until Christmas and then New Year's people come in for town, but it's normally dead. He's like, I've never seen such a busy month. And I think we see this in the numbers. Consumers are still spending like it's 2021. They're still spending like
[01:12:40] interest rates are zero. As we talked about, um, consumer credit is skyrocketing while rates are skyrocketing. Um, and so I think we're going to run into a real wall with respect to consumer credit in um, uh, sometime this year and you're going to see As As you guys know, this is such a complicated interwoven market of assets that the way that this this can be traded, there's a lot of different ways to trade it, but I think it's going
[01:13:04] to be in general, consumers are not going to be able to meet their debt obligations and it's going to be really ugly. Could be mortgages, could be credit card debt. Defaults are coming. Yeah, and Yeah, if you're putting So, the market's The market has priced in a bunch of this stuff. Obviously, companies like Affirm and, you know, the the um, what are they called? Buy now, pay later companies, but credit card companies, mortgages,
[01:13:25] there's a lot of assets that you can start to kind of pick apart. Where do you think this unravels first? How does it What gets hit hardest? What's underpriced and overpriced? Probably a lot of good pair trading to do as Chamath kind of loves to talk about uh, with respect to which of these are more likely or less likely to be sensitive to this dynamic, but there's I think it's pretty It's going to be a pretty ugly
[01:13:42] scene. Uh, consumers just have way too much debt relative to their earnings right now and it's pretty nasty. And they have some confidence that they'll always have a job or some way to pay their four easy payments for their Vegas trip. I'd say it's it's hard It's Muscle memory is serious. You know, you come out of 2021 when you had um, it's not just stimulus checks, it was the low interest rate and and easy credit