[00:15:35] weight loss like I did for many years, you talk to your doctor about it. That said, it's not a commercial for Wegovy or Ozempic. But, I do think these things are going to change Or Mounjaro. Well, and they're getting better, and it seems like dia- People with diabetes are on them for life. So, if your question is, like, if I could do this for a year to lose weight, you know, I think diabetics are on it for life. So, when I made my
[00:15:53] decision, again, work with your doctors, not random podcasters or venture capitalists for your health advice. I was like, "Well, if all of these people have diabetes are going to on it for years, unless it's non-toxic, go get a PreNuvo scan. Just make sure you Absolutely. All right. So, there you have it. There's our predictions. Sachs, did you want to respond to any of I I want to I want the Sachs to react to my spread trade. Yeah.
[00:16:14] So, so, so, look, I think, you know, if you're going on a betting site, I think that um you could place that bet that Chamath made pretty cheaply, and probably it's like has some good upside to it. So, I don't criticize it as a bet. Do I think it's actually going to happen? No. And I I think the reason is is this, that if you look at what's happening right now with the speakers' race, there's two very clear wings in
[00:16:35] the Republican Party. There's the establishment wing, and then there's kind of this populist MAGA wing. And the candidate, whoever it is, in '24 needs to unite those two wings. And I think this is really the best argument for DeSantis is he's widely accepted by both. I think Nikki Haley's problem is that she's very well regarded within the uh establishment wing of the Republican Party, but she has no meaningful support
[00:16:58] within the populist wing. And so, I don't think she's capable of bringing the party together, at least at this point in time. She would have to prove, let's call it, populist bonafides that she just doesn't have right now. So, this is why I think, you know, DeSantis even He does have front-runner risk. You're right that people are going to keep taking shots at him as long as he's the front-runner, but All right. Let's rip through
[00:17:19] He's capable of uniting the party in a way that it desperately needs right now, as we're seeing with the Kevin McCarthy thing playing out. Yeah. Okay, let's go for our biggest losers. We'll rip through this. Last year, I said Biden and Trump in the extremes. Chamath said the progressive left, again, the extremes. Sachs said Pelosi, who just wrapped up her tenure, and Freeberg said US influence globally was the biggest political loser.
[00:17:45] Let's get our predictions for the biggest political loser of 2023. Freeberg, who do you think would be the biggest political loser of 2023? The world wants to know, Freeberg. I would continue my US influence, but I I am going to shift. Here's what I think's going to happen this year. My my big prediction is based on um I think the world has too much debt. I think that the economic slowdown, coupled with rising interest
[00:18:11] rates globally and a and a dearth of uh kind of asset uh capital inflows, means that there's going to be a lot of issues with a number of debt markets around the world, particularly kind of emerging sovereign debt. Just to give you guys a sense, global debt is about $235 trillion in public and private. Um you know, that's somewhere between 5 and 15 trillion dollars of interest payments a year, depending on what the net rate is on $96
[00:18:34] trillion global GDP. And there's another trillion and a half of unfunded liabilities in the US and pensions and social security and all this other stuff. I think this is the year where a lot of the debt markets start to unravel. The The primary entity that steps in or a political loser. I'm going to tell everyone second. This is the political Yeah, so, the political ramifications So, the political ramifications for me,
[00:18:55] I think that the um the entity that steps in to try and support these um unwinding moments is the IMF. And I think that no matter what the IMF does, they're going to look bad. I think that the you know, it's sort of like like Jerome Powell this this past year, right? Like, you you raised rates too late, you raised rates too quickly. No matter what you do, it has some adverse effect and impact. It's either inflationary or it impacts growth.
[00:19:19] And so, I think the IMF is going to get a lot of heat for either acting not too soon or sorry, not fast enough or or acting too aggressively and causing inflation as a bunch of these markets face credit risk this year. So, my big bet is the IMF is going to play a major role, and we're going to be talking a lot about the IMF later this year. I think as a result, the IMF will get a lot of heat, and you'll end up seeing
[00:19:42] a lot of pressure and political you know, just like we blame NATO, just like we blame Jerome Powell and the Fed, we'll end up blaming the IMF for a bunch of problems that will arise. But, the natural physics of what's going on is the world has too much debt and not enough growth to cover the debt, the cost of debt. That's it. Okay. And the IMF will be the political kind of, you know, hit that'll that'll result. A little complicated of a point
[00:20:02] of view, but I think, yeah. And who do you have as your biggest political loser prediction for 2023, Mr. David Sacks? Well, I mean, Kevin McCarthy may not survive the week. So, let me go in a different direction. I think California is my big political loser, and I would say in particular the city of San Francisco. Both are going to have gigantic budget shortfalls. You may remember that this is back in 2021 when
[00:20:30] we had that asset bubble, California had a surplus of 76 billion. Insane. insane. And then 2022 happened, and now the state is looking at a 24 billion dollar deficit. Well, if we had taken, say, a third of that surplus from '21 and put it in a rainy day fund, we wouldn't have to worry about this deficit, but that was never done. Newsom started handing that money out like candy to the electorate to goose his election his reelect numbers and to get
[00:21:00] him past the that recall, remember? Okay. So, the the state never got its fiscal outlook in order, and now I think it's going to be even worse in 2023. And San Francisco, the city, very similar kind of problem where it's tax base is heavily dependent on commercial real estate, which is really suffering. So, you know, the city of San Francisco and the state of California, they've moved their tax base to to highly
[00:21:26] volatile capital gains. And with a really lousy stock market, I don't know how these guys are going to meet their budgets. So, a lot of pain coming. a lot of austerity and pain coming, that's for sure. And these people do not know how to manage a budget. They're incompetent. So, you say California, Freeberg says IMF. Chamath, who do you think the biggest political loser for 2023 will be? gave you DeSantis, Okay. And I'm in
[00:21:48] alignment with you. I think DeSantis peaked a little too early, and the forever Trumpers and the and the chaos is going to be a little too much for him to handle. Okay. Now we get into what everybody wants, business, business, business. Biggest business winner for 2023, who do you have, Chamath, for your biggest biggest business winner of 2023? I'm going to pick something out of my portfolio. Mhm. I think I'm the only
[00:22:12] non-trivially large investor in both SpaceX and Relativity Space. Relativity Space has a huge SpaceX is clearly just crushing on all cylinders. And they're really the only game in town with respect to launch capability. And if you just Google it, you'll see that the Europeans, you know, have a hit or miss capability on launch. The Russians are completely unable to do launch now because of all of these sanctions.
[00:22:44] The private companies in New Zealand or the United States have also had fits and starts, really incapable. Relativity, which is really which is now the second most highly valued space business, is about to do a launch in the third week of January. And the big difference between it and SpaceX, which is sort of why we did it. This is a early YC company. I did the series A and kind of went along the whole way. They
[00:23:13] have 3D printed everything. And the reason why 3D printing is interesting is you take a So, if you if you think a rocket costs 5 billion dollars if built by NASA, Elon was able to take that to 100 to 500 million. And if you 3D print everything, you can take that cost to like 5 to 50 million. And so, it allows you to just have this repeatability and manufacturability. Now, SpaceX also has a lot of 3D printed parts, but Relativity's entirely 3D
[00:23:41] printed. It has a launch in 3 weeks at Cape Canaveral, I think. And we have a like a 10 billion dollar order book that gets unlocked. So, I don't know how to see beyond a lot of these market forecasts right now. So, I'd rather pick a company, I'll pick something in my portfolio. If the rocket does not blow up, there's a 10 billion dollar order book, and this company is now on a trajectory to be as valued as SpaceX. All right, talking his book
[00:24:12] times two. And if it doesn't it it goes to zero. Freeberg, go ahead and talk your book times two or three. Let's see if you can one-up Chamath. Which one of your investments will be the biggest business winner of 2023, Freeberg? I'm not an investor. My big bet is OpenAI. It's just way too obvious to be anything else this year. As you guys know, there are dozens of startups that are being started right now based on an
[00:24:34] OpenAI's demonstration of Dolly and ChatGPT. I think we're seeing this in the enterprise and consumer markets. I think OpenAI will become to some degree maybe they could be, there's many paths they could take, the AWS providing tooling and infrastructure to all these startups that are building applications for consumers and and business users. Or they will end up doing a massive deal with Microsoft. I think it's inevitable
[00:24:55] they're going to get a billion dollar plus investment this year. They could power, you know, AI-driven Bing search and voice-driven search. They could build their own products and their own tools, and they're becoming great investors. They invested in Descript, which is a product company we use here for our podcast, which is an incredible product. And I think that Sam Altman is a very smart and and shrewd investor as well. So, for a lot of
[00:25:17] reasons, I think OpenAI could Mhm. end up having an amazing year this year and a lot of different paths they could walk, and we're going to come out of this year and say they're one of the top tech companies in the Valley. Okay. Sacks, OpenAI has, of course, increased your ability to talk to other humans. So, you're seeing a lot of big wins there, I know. Um He's How do I talk to a child about their college hopes and
[00:25:43] aspirations? No, no, no. How do I talk to a child about their day? Hello. He is poor. Hello, progeny of mine. How are you faring today in this complicated ChatGPT, write me a script of talking to a 12-year-old about their hopes and dreams. Say it in English. Using GPT for talking points on different topics. I should try that for the pod, you know. Oh, okay. Here we go. have actually had a chat on the GPT predictions. That would be great. Have
[00:26:12] GPT make its answer to these categories. Sacks, as a person on the spectrum, yeah, how delightful is this ChatGPT and, you know, your treatment of your condition? It's great. Let me let me get to my answer here. So, my answer for the big business winner of the year is America's natural gas industry. And I have to admit, this is an aspect of the Ukraine war that I didn't fully appreciate until I read this New York
[00:26:39] Times article the other day about how natural gas prices in Europe have now fallen to the level they were at before the war. And everyone thought that there'd be this huge shortage, and they wouldn't be able to heat their homes. Well, what happened? The The answer is that Europe completely cut off their dependence on Russian gas, and in fact, the Nord Stream pipelines were blown up. So, physically they separated. But then
[00:27:05] on top of it, they basically started importing liquefied natural gas from the US. And here's the key paragraph in this article from the New York Times is that Europe rapidly built terminals to receive liquefied gas, sweeping away many of the usual bureaucratic obstacles and environmental objections. So, in other words, what would normally would have taken decades to get approvals, now was all put on a fast track, and Europe
[00:27:33] is now completely dependent on American natural gas. And I think this is again the thing maybe I underestimated, the cold, hard American interest in this war is to basically turn Europe into a vassal of America's natural gas industry. Previously, they were about to be dependent on Russia, and Nord Stream was going to make that situation permanent. We've, you know, somebody blew up Nord Stream, now they're dependent on American LNG. They're going
[00:28:02] to pay higher prices for that. But it's it's been a pretty impressive win for the American natural gas industry. And I think Biden has really pulled a 180 here because you remember when he first came into office, he canceled Keystone, he canceled drilling. He was very tough on the oil and gas industry. I think after he then delivered the hundreds of billions for the climate special interest and the Inflation Reduction Act, now he has
[00:28:27] taken care of the oil and gas industry. I love it. Here we go, Matt Gaetz. 180 by Biden. Yeah, and that and so, what you're saying is Biden dynamically changed course based on inputs like a great leader would. Okay, well done, Sacks. Well, I don't I don't Listen, I don't know if this Well, no, listen, I think Biden has done something politically smart here. There's no question about it. I am giving him Okay. credit. Does it mean that this war was
[00:28:50] worth it? No, I don't I don't think we should be engaging in oil wars like we did in the Middle East. We are great. not justifying this war, but I am saying that there is a cold, hard American interest undergirding the our position, which is it's about LNG. It's not it's not just about moral platitudes. Yeah, well, I mean, listen, Strong start to 2023, vassal and undergirding. Uh my biggest predictions, I I'm working
[00:29:16] backwards from two here. I think the DoorDashes, Airbnbs, Ubers, Etsy's of the world who need entrepreneurs, they need workers, they need supply. They've always been supply constrained. As unemployment becomes, let's call it what it is, sticky, you're going to see a lot more people participating in gig platforms or entrepreneurial platforms that enable them to make money. So, I think they will be huge beneficiaries,
[00:29:37] especially if they continue to lay off employees like DoorDash and Airbnb did to right-size their businesses. But my first one, my number one, is laid-off tech workers. I think laid off tech workers who uh get together in groups of two, three, or four, uh developers, product managers, people who actually build stuff, and start companies together are going to become extremely successful, and they're going to make incredible
[00:30:03] lemonade from these lemons of these big tech layoffs. So, I think the startup space is going to And these laid off tech workers who choose to take control of their destiny and start companies are going to be the true big winners. If you do it, do it with two or three friends because you're going to need developers, you're going to need those those talented people in the startups that have three founders get funded faster
[00:30:23] than the ones with one. Uh so, those are my two winners. All right. Oh, yeah, and last year our biggest business winners were uh Chamath said SMBs, Sachs said Rise of the Rest, uh Friedberg said Stripe, and I said Disney Millennials and Gen Z. Let's go on to biggest business loser for 2023, Friedberg. Who do you think will be the biggest business loser in '23 this year, in fact? Okay, so my biggest loser is the general
[00:30:46] category of capital-intensive Series B through D growth businesses in the startup landscape, private companies. Um as you guys know, there's been a big shift in capital allocation. A lot of the folks who were writing big checks into growth rounds are retreating back to writing smaller checks in seed and A rounds. They don't want to write the $20 million Series B. They want to write the $5 million seed and A round.
[00:31:11] Uh no one wants to kind of follow the valuation. No one wants to set the valuation for these growth businesses, particularly if after this round you know you need another big round of capital, and no one's sure if someone's going to be waiting on the other end. As a result, we're seeing tons of these businesses run into capital infusion walls. They can't pivot. I think we'll see what we saw in the dot-com bubble,
[00:31:32] where 99 and a half percent of these companies actually die. The half percent that win are going to emerge as the next hundred billion-dollar enterprises, the Googles and the Amazons of the world. So, there will be light at the end of the tunnel for the winners, but generally there are hundreds of companies in hardware, in synbio, in biotech, in high-growth enterprise uh software that require significant sales