[01:27:48] is, but it was a non-profit where they said investors put money in, but the investors' maximum return was a 100x on the dollar invested. So, it's a non-profit, but it's a profit up to 100x. No, no, that happened afterwards. It's when they converted original model. No, the No, the original model was a pure They converted it to a for-profit. No, no, the the original model was a pure non-profit where there was no cap because there was no concept
[01:28:09] of equity. Yeah. When they flipped, they capped everybody to a 100x on the return. So, the original money But not anymore or still? But you know, the original money, which was like Elon's money, who else put in money? Reid. Yeah. All that money came in as a as pure non-profit. So, I don't know how it converted, but that's when they Or did it convert? Did those people who funded it originally get any shares in
[01:28:32] the for-profit? We could We could find out. Probably they did. I mean, it would make sense that they would. We'll find out. We'll eventually find out. But I mean, wait, if this is a tender offer for 1% of the company billion? You wouldn't buy shares at 27 billion? So, again like the the thing that I want to impress upon you is like there is an enormous amount of work that they do that what their biggest gap to
[01:28:52] monetizing this will be finding unique content that they learn on that nobody else has access to. And this is why I I really think it's important to understand, if you have enough compute, these all of these unsupervised learning models, if you run them on the same training set, will converge to the same answer. So, you're just getting there first. So, in In to be really defensible, you have to get there in a unique way. And so
[01:29:19] either you're going to hand tune or you're going to have inputs that are different. So I don't know I don't know the answer. That's why like they they have to answer that question in their fundraising and I'm sure that they did because these are smart investors. But that's the big idea that you have to overcome. And again, you have to think like you think Google is sitting on their hands? No. Google is sitting on a competitor they haven't
[01:29:40] launched. billion? Like what fundamentals is that based on? Like why not 5 billion? Why not 3 billion? I mean like why not 10 billion? Like what makes it their last valuation. That's what it is. It's all this is all momentum. It's had nothing to do with reality, right? I mean It this would imply at a 30 the public comps of the Google trades at what? 25 or 30 times EBITDA? So this would imply a billion dollars in
[01:30:05] EBITDA. A billion dollars in EBITDA, 3 million dollars a day. They're losing 3 million dollars a day on computer reportedly, 3 million dollars a day in profit on what product? I don't know. They have a I think that's not the issue. I mean look, I mean my point was if these guys open up a set of tools that support all these applications and services to emerge on top of what they've built and they're getting rev share, getting
[01:30:28] payments out of that, it's going to very quickly turn into a real Here's the problem for you, this is why that can't happen. They don't have the rights to the data they built the training set on and the second they commercialize it, the second anybody pays them, whoever they based this on, they're going to get sued into oblivion. I predict sued into oblivion. Let's talk Let's Let's actually Let's talk about that in the next show cuz I
[01:30:49] think that's a like the the way that AI works and we should probably bring someone like Sam on to talk about it. But the way that AI works on training data and now people are making claims that the training data is copyright, therefore the model output is protect protects that copyright is I think worthy of a good conversation. interesting is you know, the early the early version of the of the internet was very simple. It's like you had a this
[01:31:12] file called robots.txt and you would basically be open to a crawl or not and that's what would allow Google to basically go and spider your pages. Right. And so we have to replace this concept of that with this ai.txt Well, you could make a claim that this is no different than you know, a spider crawling a webpage except that in the in the search case, it was much cleaner, which is we're just going to index your page and redirect
[01:31:37] people to you. Uh here it's we're actually going to create a derivative work because of you in part. And I do think that that's going to be a very interesting legal threshold that has to get figured out. Well, here it is, Chamath. You're you're you're nailing it exactly. It's a derivative work and they did not have permission to use it and it impedes upon the original authors, whether it's a photo, it's a song, it's a piece of code, it impedes
[01:32:01] upon their ability to do commerce in the world. You are interfering with their ability to monetize their content and the percentage you're using is 100%. So when you get to fair use, non-commercial use is very protected. Parody's protected, education's protected, but when you dip into using the entirety of the work, which they're doing and you impede upon the person's ability to do commerce and you confuse the
[01:32:24] public. Well, this is why I think that most people don't understand what AI is. They don't even understand the difference between training and inference. So hopefully there is some more understanding of this, but if you use the same data set you will eventually converge to the same outputs absent of hand tuning weights which has its own issues and absent any asymmetrically different data that you have that nobody else has.
[01:32:53] Absolutely. Yes. So if you are Apple and you have the watch data or you're Google and you have the search data or you're a weather company, you have the weather data and it's your proprietary, of course. There's a very easy solution to this, Chamath. Number one, citations. When the algorithm gives you an answer, it should say what were the top percentage sources of this information? How did the AI Jason, look at the people's Look, if you
[01:33:15] look inside of a transformer, the problem is, okay, that you're going to have trillions of ranks, trillions of weights, trillions. Yes. And so how are you going to decide how to basically draw a line under a threshold? This was actually a useful input and this was not. So again, I I just think that It's hard. a very few small class of people actually understand this. Like the great person to actually bring in to talk
[01:33:37] about this would be Andrej Karpathy, not and I think cuz Andrej was there Sure. and at Tesla and he but he can say it in a very dispassionate way to explain this to people. I think it would be useful. it. We should We should ask him to come on. Yeah, for sure. I mean I can ask him. I can ask him. I mean this is brand this this the law, Sachs, you're an attorney, you understand fair use, copyright, all this stuff.
[01:33:57] The law, correct me if I'm wrong here, Sachs, does not anticipate this. Look, this is a highly specialized area. I don't want to pretend like I understand the law in this area. You know, I'd want to talk to a specialist. Yeah, okay. So anybody this conversation cuz I think yeah, this is a great I think there's more work for us to talk about because uh All right. This is probably why, by the way, they started as open source cuz it was like a slam
[01:34:20] dunk thing to make this a nonprofit and open source everything maybe in part because of these issues, but if you just let the code run free you probably don't have to even deal with these issues, right? Well, they they closed it. Remember their claim, the claim was this is too dangerous. Their original claim was it's too dangerous for people to not see the code. Then Sam flipped on that and he said it's too dangerous for people to
[01:34:45] see the code and it started out as a nonprofit where the idea was the way to keep this safe is for everybody to see the code. But they didn't make any money. Then they went private and they flipped the decision. So keep that in mind as well. He's a He's a very very very clever business person. He's savvy. And You know, Paul Graham, when Paul Graham picked Sam to run YC, Paul Graham said that this is the most impressive
[01:35:10] person I've met since Steve Jobs. Yeah. Remember that? the pod. I I do remember that. And he said something similar about Garry Tan is now running YC starting this week. Sam Altman, friend of the pod, come on All-In anytime. And has played in our poker game several times. Many times. Yes. Yes. We we we had a tough situation there where you interfered in a hand, if you remember. All right, listen. This has been
[01:35:31] What up? There was a Sam and I were in a hand of poker. He raised. I had two pair and I'm trying to figure out does he have a set or is he bluffing me? I think he's got top pair and you were like, "Oh, look at this." and you started commenting on the hand. Oh my god, I remember this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
[01:35:45] And I'm like And I'm like, "Chamath, for my little bush, let's let's stop talking here because I'm trying to I'm playing a hand. I'm like, "Okay, Sam would get And I basically came to the conclusion Sam would get the light great delight bluffing me off a hand and he's a risk taker. He knows I'm conservative. He knows he's a risk taker. I'm going to call here with my I had bottom two." I'm like, "Does he have a set?" And
[01:36:05] there was also a straight on the board. I'm like, "Fuck it. I I I I at best I'm you know, even money here. And there was a lot in the pot. So I was just doing the pot odds. While I'm doing the pot odds, you were like which is usually me. I'm usually the one being reprimanded for talking for a hand. But it was notable. All right, listen. Love you, besties. Why don't you tell people that there's no comments? And just as a programming note, we
[01:36:28] turned off comments for a couple of weeks on the YouTube just to see how it psychologically affects me and for Chamath to just f with all you brigadooners. We love you, besties. This has been a great episode. Two great and his Twitter is @chamath and he does it with Just so everyone listening knows, Sachs Sachs and I voted against turning off comments. Just just as a heads-up. in favor of whatever got Chamath's vote
[01:36:53] for the All-In Summit 2023. So That's how I vote. This is horse trading now, but the podcast has never been better. Besties spending time together on the slopes is the cure to all evils. We'll see you next time. Love you, besties. Bye-bye. Love you, guys. Bye-bye. Let your winners ride. Rain Man David Sacks And I said, "We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it." Love you, besties. I'm queen of
[01:37:21] quinoa.
[01:37:28] Besties are back. That is my dog taking a dump in your driveway, Sacks.
[01:37:39] We should all just get a room and just have a one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. Wet your bare feet. Wet. We need to get merch. Besties are back.
[01:38:01] I'm going all in.