[00:29:37] especially if they continue to lay off employees like DoorDash and Airbnb did to right-size their businesses. But my first one, my number one, is laid-off tech workers. I think laid off tech workers who uh get together in groups of two, three, or four, uh developers, product managers, people who actually build stuff, and start companies together are going to become extremely successful, and they're going to make incredible
[00:30:03] lemonade from these lemons of these big tech layoffs. So, I think the startup space is going to And these laid off tech workers who choose to take control of their destiny and start companies are going to be the true big winners. If you do it, do it with two or three friends because you're going to need developers, you're going to need those those talented people in the startups that have three founders get funded faster
[00:30:23] than the ones with one. Uh so, those are my two winners. All right. Oh, yeah, and last year our biggest business winners were uh Chamath said SMBs, Sachs said Rise of the Rest, uh Friedberg said Stripe, and I said Disney Millennials and Gen Z. Let's go on to biggest business loser for 2023, Friedberg. Who do you think will be the biggest business loser in '23 this year, in fact? Okay, so my biggest loser is the general
[00:30:46] category of capital-intensive Series B through D growth businesses in the startup landscape, private companies. Um as you guys know, there's been a big shift in capital allocation. A lot of the folks who were writing big checks into growth rounds are retreating back to writing smaller checks in seed and A rounds. They don't want to write the $20 million Series B. They want to write the $5 million seed and A round.
[00:31:11] Uh no one wants to kind of follow the valuation. No one wants to set the valuation for these growth businesses, particularly if after this round you know you need another big round of capital, and no one's sure if someone's going to be waiting on the other end. As a result, we're seeing tons of these businesses run into capital infusion walls. They can't pivot. I think we'll see what we saw in the dot-com bubble,
[00:31:32] where 99 and a half percent of these companies actually die. The half percent that win are going to emerge as the next hundred billion-dollar enterprises, the Googles and the Amazons of the world. So, there will be light at the end of the tunnel for the winners, but generally there are hundreds of companies in hardware, in synbio, in biotech, in high-growth enterprise uh software that require significant sales
[00:31:51] investment expense. A lot of these businesses where the capital-intensive nature of the business just doesn't have the market for it right now, uh and there and and investors are are all retreating and they're going to be selective. So, that that's where I think there's going to be more pain um in so By the way, seed seed and A investing, hot as a button. Uh B plus That's That's Yeah, that's it. Okay, Sachs, biggest business loser for 2023.
[00:32:16] Well, I just by the way, I 100% agree with what Friedberg said, but my my biggest loser for business in '23 is the consumer. I just don't understand how the consumer isn't going to finally tap out in this economy. I mean, they they have a mountain of personal debt, credit card debt's at all-time highs. I think the average credit card rate hit 19.6% last week, and it's expected to rise even further. Uh the mortgage rates are
[00:32:41] above 7% now, so forget about trying to buy a new home or uh sell your home, and your stock portfolio is down, too, and now layoffs are starting to pile up. So, I just don't understand how we're going to avoid a recession, and you saw, you know, Kashkari saying that right the Fed's going to keep raising, 5.4% is his prediction. Uh you know, I don't understand how if if rates are at 5 and 1/2% that doesn't finally break the back
[00:33:05] of this economy, and uh we go into recession. So, Sachs, that the economy is actually broken right now? We just don't have the data cuz the data lags 60 days in in most people's minds cuz it does feel like the consumer is just and real estate has just broken at this very moment. It seems like it. I mean, the pain is very unequal, right? But in the tech industry, we've been in a recession for a year. I mean, like the growth stocks
[00:33:26] are down 80%. What Friedberg said is true. No one's going to fund these, you know, high-burning companies. There's an enormous amount of retooling that has to happen. Look, I think the recession is here. It's just very unequally distributed. Distributed, exactly. Yeah, well, I mean, if you look at it, uh buy now, pay later, that's a category starting to break. Credit card debt, as you're saying, hitting, you know, uh big
[00:33:48] um a bad records in terms of how much people are spending. Also, people's um savings are going down. So, the consumer's back has been broken. I think we're just going to feel it in the in the first and second quarter. Chamath, who's your biggest business loser prediction for 2023? The world wants to know. Let me just build on what Friedberg and Sachs said for a second before I give you my pick. Sure. I I This is the conversation you and I had
[00:34:12] when we just got on. Guys, what I was telling Jay Cal is at the end of Q4, I did five deals, and four were pro ratas, one was a new deal. And they were all clean markups, so the four deals that other people put money into. And I was looking at them, and I was trying to figure out, okay, what differentiates these things? And Friedberg, to your point, these were super clean startups with very clean cap tables that had clear progress.
[00:34:40] And then conversely, I had seven converts showed to me for companies whose valuations were anywhere between three and I would say 12 billion, and I did none of them. And not only did I do none of them, nobody else did any of them. And the problem was the real market clearing price was 80 to 90% down. And so, I was like, what is going on here? So, Friedberg, to your point, I don't even think it's just cash-intensive startups. I think it's
[00:35:09] like all growth companies are in a really bad place. I thought that this growth stuff would get sorted out in two to three months, and now I'm worried it's two to three years. I think it's Here's the toxic. Toxic. Here's the definition, Chamath, what what I think has happened, and where I think the cutoff is, is when the valuate the implied market valuation of the company based on where public comps are trading is less than the total capital
[00:35:32] preference in the company, the total preferred stock. Wow. And there's so many companies now that raised $400 million at a $2 billion valuation, but the company is actually worth $300 million now based on public market comps. So, they're worth less than their preference stack. So, how do you sort through that massive amount of capital? No, that This is why I think all these converts are getting done. That's where the rubber meets the road
[00:35:52] on all these deals. Yeah, that's right. Who does the convert benefit? The convert benefits the VCs who want to maintain the illusory valuation that they had before. They do that They do that to assuage the limited partner who gave the money that the marks aren't as bad as they thought. But the people that really get screwed, as Jason said, are the common shareholders because eventually those converts deals that do get done,
[00:36:21] those people will end up owning the company. The cap table gets completely flushed and reset. And the employees get wiped up. Yeah. And then you got to basically take all the employees who were there previously who now hate the founder, and you got to start all over, and give everybody all the Yeah, they're wiped. The people that do all the work get [ __ ] and the people that do none of the work, and who just want to
[00:36:40] maintain this shell game, gets to basically live another day. Basically, people are investing, as you gave in the example earlier, like, hey, if it's a $3 billion company, but it's actually worth 750, people, instead of taking the valuation from $3 billion to 750, will say, okay, buy one share at the $3 billion price, and we'll give you three or four shares for free, or for a penny, warrants they're called, typically, or,
[00:37:01] you know, just different ways to structure this. And then all of a sudden, nobody knows the actual denominator. They may own them 10,000 shares, but they don't know how many shares are actually issued because the warrants are not on the cap table. They're in some side document in a folder in a lawyer or CFO's office. So, let me let me tell you my biggest business loser. Yes, please. I think that the biggest potential business loser
[00:37:24] this year is Google Search as measured by pure profitability and engagement. I think it's easier for me to see where the the usage comes from as opposed to picking Open AI or ChatGPT in terms of where the usage goes to. And the reason is because I think a lot of people don't still fully understand how machine learning and AI work, but just 30-second primer, there's two big buckets of work. There is what's called learning, which
[00:37:57] is how you learn how to make predictions. And then there's what's called inference, which is when you actually type something into the search box, you get the answer. The thing with learning, and what ChatGPT is showing, is that they have learned by crawling the entirety of the web. There are five or six other organizations that are capable of crawling the entire web in terms of cost, in terms of compute, in terms of
[00:38:21] the quality of the transformers, and the quality of the AI. And so, I find it easier to predict the decay in the quality of Google Search as that much better than everybody else than I find it is to predict who will win because I think that with enough time and money, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, the Chinese internet companies can all compete. Facebook. And so, I think that you'll converge on the same training, which
[00:38:52] will lead to the same inference, and so I think consumers end up getting confused, and will end up being able to get high-quality search results from many places versus today, you know, you wouldn't only think that Google is the only game in town, quite honestly, for most people. So, I think that Google could lose 10 or 15% of usage to all these other sites, and that may not make any of those sites that relevant, but it'll have a material
[00:39:16] measurable impact to Google and Google's bottom Fantastic prediction, and I think, you know, ChatGPT and these other ones are going to have a very interesting marketing attack that they can do on Google. It's why search when you can get an answer, right? Hey, we'll just give you the answer, you don't have to search. I had so many losers that I went through here. I'm just going to run backwards through them. Number five, I thought
[00:39:37] founders who refused to downsize in 2022 could be big losers in 2023, obviously. you get to have five, and the rest of us are just We left just telling you my thought process. I This was the one I had a long time number four. I thought VC funds founded in 2020. Then I thought crypto cuz Gary Gensler says it's all a stock. Then I went with you, Chamath, number four, Google. My God, they got so many headwinds against them with the chat
[00:39:57] GPT, but I wound up on white collar workers with no hard skills Twitter going down to I think, you know, Elon said a couple of hundred people is all you need to run Twitter and I think he said he has 2,000 employees or something like that. He has shown everybody, you know, hey, listen, these more can be done with less or these things are overstaffed in a massive way. I think white collar workers now, the idea that you're going to have four
[00:40:21] offers and you're going to be able to play them off each other is over. When we take the show you're saying surplus elites. Sure, white collar workers aka surplus elites, people who actually, you know, are mid-managers who don't who don't actually code or don't actually build a product or sell a product, don't actually do real work as as I think many people would frame it in the managerial class or the CEO class.
[00:40:43] Man, they're going to have a hard time and this week Andy, Amazon Andy, cut 18,000 white collar workers, not the blue collar, the white collar workers at Amazon. That was a big turning point and Benioff you know, he's Ohana, he is Mahalo, he is Aloha, he does not like to lay people off, he considers Salesforce a family, he laid off 8,000. I predicted that. Yeah, and I mean that is to me about that. Well, I mean the reason is
[00:41:09] pretty simple, right? Their growth slowed down by 2/3 in the most recent quarter, but they were still spending the same amount on sales and marketing. So, when that happens, your CAC payback explodes, right? You go from 3 years payback to like 10 years. So, they have to cut costs in order to rationalize their unit economics. So, and now it it cascades, right? Because all of Salesforce's vendors are going to be
[00:41:31] getting less money from Salesforce because they're tightening their belts. So, then those companies are going to have to cut and the cycle just keeps going and going. Right. And everybody tightens their belts at the same time, freezes the economy aka recession and and and possibly worse. So, that mine was a surplus elite, so that's a nice little quartet. In 2022, just so you know, I picked crypto, Freeberg also picked
[00:41:54] crypto, Chamath said Visa Mastercard, and Sachs said asset classes that benefit from government dumps and and pumps. liquidity Yeah. All right, let's go to biggest business deal of 2023. It's a prediction. What do we think could be the biggest business deal? Easy. Easy, this one is easy. Chamath, go. Oh, let's go lightning round here. Go, Chamath, quickly. Starlink will go public. Oh, SpaceX will cut and paste
[00:42:15] the cap table and we will take Yum, yum. Yum, it'll be yummy and delicious and my prediction is that the Starlink valuation will be at least half of SpaceX's current private market. 75 billy. 75 billion. It will be phenomenal. And I think the reason why is that I think in order for Elon to have complete financial flexibility and do what he needs to do and, you know, he talked about this on our pod about the difficulties and the dangers of margin
[00:42:44] loans and all of that stuff. Yes. He's going to create breathing room for himself. Ah. This is the simplest and most obvious way for him to do it. It'll give him a ton of more dry powder. Sure. So, I think that this is an obvious outcome in 2023. They already have a million subscribers in their better than nothing beta as they call it. I have two of them. I think this is a great great prediction. I was the first one to get it for for
[00:43:10] the global 7500. So Okay, I I got it for, yeah, Tahoe, so yeah, similar. They're playing in your house at the same size. Yeah, exactly. So, there you go. There is a point here. People are underestimating the TAM, I think, of this product. The TAM is not existing broadband connections, it's second connections, it's connections where connections didn't exist. It's all just just so you know the the best in class the best in class
[00:43:37] broadband connection for a plane is called KA band and it costs 500 grand a year. That's ridiculous. And you can replace it for, you know, a tenth of the cost and Starlink on a plane is dramatically better bidirectionally. So, I think Starlink is going to go public and I think it's going to be a it's going to be the best chance that we have of opening up the capital markets in 2023. It's another way of saying people who own private jets, if they are
[00:44:04] flying 250 hours a year, which will probably be a reasonable number, 2 to 300 hours a year, they're paying $2,000 an hour for their internet service. That is bonkers. Okay, Sachs who is your big deal? Biggest business deal prediction for 2023? deal 23 prediction is there will be a deal between Putin and Xi. And they met by satellite late last week to discuss ways to further help each other in 2023. Putin characterized it as a no limits
[00:44:36] partnership. You may remember that the two of them inked a $175 billion gas deal in early February last year. That was 3 weeks before Putin invaded Ukraine. I think now Russia is even more dependent on China. We've really driven Russia into China's arms and I think there will be a big deal not just on energy, but on agricultural products, mineral products and rare earth minerals that, you know, Chamath likes to talk about. I think
[00:45:07] there could be a trillion dollar deal between Russia and China this year. I'm just going to go out on a limb and make a prediction. Okay, so there is your 2023 prediction of the biggest deal, the Legion of dictators is forming. I do think it's it is like you know, the axis of evil. This is more Legion of dictators like, hey, let's do business together. Freeberg you got a prediction for the biggest business deal of 2023? This is really
[00:45:30] going out on a limb here. I'll do two real quick. The first was the similar to what Sachs said, but it's kind of echoing what I said earlier, which is the petroyuan trade. I think that's the Saudi China trade. If this happens and oil is sold in yuan it marks the beginning of I think um the end of the assumption that the US dollar is the global reserve and the risk-free currency in reserve for the world. So, I think