[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome to 2023. Everybody's well rested and ready to take on 2023. Yes, Chamath, how was your break? Amazing. Okay. Saxi poo, I know you don't go to temperatures that are under 57° anymore. Did you have a nice break? Did you go somewhere warm? Yes. Okay, that's a confirmation. Wow, man of so many words. And Freeberg. I'm over cold weather vacations. Yeah, that does happen at a certain point.
[00:00:26] Actually, we went to Florida. Went to the the free state of Florida. Oh, really? Yeah. What what's going on in Florida at the turn of the new year, I wonder, that drew you down to the great state of Florida. We're just freeing it up in the free state of Florida.
[00:00:58] We have our 2023 predictions now. I'll play some music and all that kind of stuff. Producer Nick at this point, let's get to it. Last year, we did By the way, did you guys do you guys notice that every time we talk about something, somewhere between sort of 2 months to a year later, the Wall Street Journal ends up writing a big think piece about it. Think piece about it, yeah. So, I tweeted into the group chat, like last
[00:01:19] year we all talked about Sequoia and distributing public equities and Yeah. how it's very fraught and difficult. And then today they write this big article about how people have just burned enormous amounts of billions of dollars that they could have returned to LPs, like these venture investors, by not distributing. It makes sense. 3 weeks ago when we did our end of the year wrap-up, my big winner for 2022 were the pot shops,
[00:01:46] right? Citadel. And today in Wall Street Journal, an article lands that these guys with 56 billion of AUM over the last 2 years have made almost 45 billion dollars of revenues. Isn't that incredible? And this is what happens, Chamath. Usually They are These guys are just crushing it and then Citadel Securities did like almost, you know, 7 and 1/2 billion of revenue. I mean, it's unbelievable these businesses, how good
[00:02:14] they are. Yes. So, let's get into This is typical, Chamath. If you think about journalists, they're trying to get into the conversations that are occurring at the bar after the event, the late night conversation, the group chats. Well, and that's what this podcast is. It's the exposed backchannel, right? And so, if you listen to this pod, you got the backchannel of Silicon Valley politics, tech, science, etc. So, let's do our
[00:02:36] predictions. In 2020, we said our biggest political winner would be Sax and I both said DeSantis, Chamath said Xi Jinping, and Freeberg said Putin. Who do we think is our biggest political winner going forward? Who do you pick, Sax? Biggest political winner for 2023. Who will be your biggest political winner for 2023? Well, I went a little bit outside the box here because I think we're going to have gridlock in Washington, so I'm not
[00:02:58] expecting a ton to be coming out of Washington over the next year. My pick for biggest political winner is Asian American college applicants. There are two Supreme Court decisions that the court heard on Halloween last year. There was a lawsuit against Harvard and another lawsuit against UNC by a group called Students for Fair Admissions. And that they maintain that Harvard and UNC violate Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
[00:03:29] because Asian American applicants are far less likely to be admitted than similarly qualified applicants from other groups. And the the federal courts in Boston and North Carolina rejected this argument, but the Supreme Court took up the cases. So, they kind of went out of their way to hear this, and I think that they are going to They're going to repeal affirmative action. the majority will rule to strike down
[00:03:53] these policies that really discriminated against Asian Americans. And I think they're the last group in America where it seems to be okay to discriminate against. And uh I think the Supreme Court is going to is going to find that unconstitutional. Chamath, any thoughts there? You have brought this up multiple times on the podcast over the last 2 years. I have said that this was unfortunately affirmative action when it started, I
[00:04:21] think had very, very good intentions. And I still think that there's a place for it. The problem is that these very liberal institutions decided to play judge, jury, and executioner on which minorities counted in affirmative action. And that's not what the intention was. The intention was to look at the establishment and their ability to get their progeny into these incredible schools even when they didn't deserve to be
[00:04:49] there. And so, I think this was always an issue of classism that was disguised as racism. And people who are in the upper classes of society have always had an edge. You had the legacy admissions into Harvard. You had people the Kushners very famously, right? Like the $5 million check from the father that got the son into the school. All of this stuff, it's all it's been well written about. And whether or not those things
[00:05:17] are right isn't the point. I think the point is that there are folks in emerging lower middle classes who have the potential to crush. And those kids should have a chance. And you can't just decide who those kids are based on the color of their skin. And in this case, what happened was some blacks were still allowed in, some Hispanics were allowed in, but Asian Americans broadly were discriminated. And that was a really stupid outcome.
[00:05:43] You cannot punish kids for willing to work their ass off. And I think that that was the unfortunate outcome of what affirmative action has become by 2022. So, it is going to get repealed. The reason it's going to get repealed is that you know, we have case law that very clearly states that that any institution that accepts federal funds cannot have any form of discrimination. And this is how these folks who have tried to repeal
[00:06:13] affirmative action have taken up this lawsuit. And hopefully the outcome is a more meritocratic system that also tries to create a plurality of different people from different backgrounds. Freeberg, any thoughts? Uh if not, your biggest political winner for 2023. Uh my biggest political winner for 2023 is um MBS. Mohammed bin Salman. I think that Saudi Arabia will have the most important year in kind of the modern era in terms of
[00:06:46] their role. I don't know if you guys saw this Reuters report from a few weeks ago, but there's kind of a deepening discussion about the oil yuan trade in that um Saudi would sell oil to China, and they would get paid in yuan. Saudi Arabia sits at the intersection of the United States, Russia, and China. They have relationships with all three nations. And in the kind of conflict and power struggle that is underway, I think
[00:07:15] that ultimately the direction of where global currency kind of reserves will be taken, um and the importance of these great nations and who sits atop whom can actually be dictated and significantly influenced by MBS this year by some of the deals and trades he might put in place and the and the the the kind of partnerships he might forge. I think as a result, you will see him kind of rise in terms of influence, not in terms of,
[00:07:45] you know, hey, the world has accolades for this for this guy. But I think in terms of global influence, he will rocket ship to kind of the top because of this this kind of jockeying he can now do between these three great nation states in defining you know, what's going to happen with the US and what's going to happen with China and what's going to happen with currency reserves. Great Great selection. I mean, great
[00:08:06] selection. The shitty The shitty thing by the way about your selection is that Biden our explicit stance is unfortunately quite confrontational with MBS. And Yeah. you saw that play out in Q4. We asked them to ease up on OPEC plus to introduce supply cuts, and they did some nominal 100,000 barrel per day cut. Didn't do much of anything. There was an article, to your point, Freeberg, just recently about Saudi really doubling
[00:08:42] down on getting the oil out of the ground and monetizing their petrochemicals. So, there's just going to be a glut of supply in the market. And we have the least amount of influence with Saudi Arabia than we've ever had. And it seems like we could change that if we decided to, but I think Biden has taken this very confrontational approach, which doesn't seem to make And remember, a lot of sense. Their stated intent is to diversify away from
[00:09:09] oil and into technology and other kind of emerging growth economies. That's why they funded the Vision Fund. That's why MBS made that big kind of visit to Silicon Valley a few years ago. And there is technology that they want to import into Saudi Arabia, and they want to have ownership in around the world. And if the US is creating a barrier for them to import US tech into Saudi or for Saudi to kind of invest in the US, but
[00:09:31] China and Russia have open arms, and all they want is for Saudi to start doing trades in yuan, it's going to happen. And I think that's where this guy has kind of a real opportunity to shift the global economic dynamic. Say what you will about Trump, he had open dialogue with North Korea, China, Russia, MBS. enemies close. Sure. to be able to talk to anybody, and he was able to talk to anybody. Now, you also want to be able to say, "Hey,
[00:09:58] listen, you can't dismember a journalist like Khashoggi." And you need to be able to have both of those ideas in your head. You can't be rigid in foreign policy. You have to be fluid and keep people at the table talking. Chamath, who is your big political Who do you predict will be the big political winner of 2023? Chamath's prediction, everybody. Go ahead. I really like spread trades, right? Where you go long something and
[00:10:19] short another. So, I'd like to pair my biggest political winner with my biggest political loser for 2023. Okay. And I am going to focus on the Republican nomination, and I am going to go long Nikki Haley, and I'm going to go short Ron DeSantis. Now, let me explain. Sachs hat. You If you're wa- If you're not watching Sachs right now, he is ready to interject. Go, Chamath. So, I think that all of this nonsense, for
[00:10:47] example, in the House Speaker race, all of the midterm results, what it really speaks to are is people are getting exhausted with the lunatic fringes of both parties. That's point number one. And point So, that favors moderates as an emergent class. And point number two is that if you look back through many, many cycles of Republican and Democratic nominations, it is a very negative thing to be in the lead so early going into the Iowa
[00:11:18] caucuses in January. And so, if you put those two things together, the risk is that DeSantis decays, things emerge, people attack him because he's the clear front-runner. And the opportunity, just like it was for Trump in '16, or for Clinton, or for George Bush, not Herschel Walker, but, you know, W, is to emerge from the back. And so, if I think about a moderate person who can emerge from the back, who can consolidate the ranks,
[00:11:48] they should probably be from the south. They will have a lot of these purple compromises that Sachs mentioned in their policy program. And they will have a history of winning and a history of normalcy. And so, I think that of all of the places where you could ever elect a woman as president of the United States, I think it will come from the Republicans before it comes from the Democrats. I mean, the Democrats are
[00:12:15] unfortunately increasingly judgmental. And I think it's very difficult for a woman to emerge there. But, I do think that Nikki Haley has a shot. So, I'm going to go long Nikki Haley, and I'm going to short Ron DeSantis. Okay. I like it. A spread trade for his prediction. Well done. Before Sachs, you interject, let me just do mine, and then because then you'll have two to interject, too. Uh I was looking uh at Biden and Trump and
[00:12:39] thinking, "Hmm, which one of these is going to have the big win in 2023 since they're two biggest, I think, uh players?" I have a prediction for Trump. I think he's going to lose 50 lb on the Ozempic. Everybody loves a weight loss story. I think he is going to be indicted by Garland. Is he on Wait a minute. Sorry. He's on Ozempic? No, I'm predicting an Ozempic run. And he's going to drop 40, 50 lb. Then we're going to have a svelte Trump
[00:13:05] get indicted by Garland. And the debates and the and the and the rigmarole with DeSantis. I think he's going to go after DeSantis based on weight and height. And then he's going to win the nomination in '24, and we're going to have Trump versus Biden. But, this is a crazy prediction here. I think we're going to have a settlement. I think he's going to agree to not run and get the pardon. This is a crazy prediction, I know.
[00:13:34] But, I think he loses the weight. He wins the nom. He gets indicted, and then he gets the Richard Nixon pardon, global pardon for all of the [ __ ] he's done. Sachs, you can reply now to these two crazy predictions, this spread trade of mine. I mean, this is like proof positive that everything you have to say about Trump is an act of projection. Go ahead. Like, Ozempic? I mean, I mean, are you talking about yourself
[00:14:01] or Trump? Strike. Boom. Yeah, tell us about your Ozempic story, Jake. I did Well, my weight loss journey has been Ozempic and super good. Yes, both of those things and fasting. Have you, Sachs, done any Ozempic? Yeah, I've I've tried it. Yeah. Um I think everybody should be looking into this if you're uh have weight issues. It's a It's a It's a great new We'll go over it. I would say it even more broadly. I've
[00:14:20] been reading a lot about these GLP-1s, and I I got to tell you, statins are a clear wonder drug. Yes. Okay? I think that the 50-year longitudinal data on its value is pretty unimpeachable. Metformin, even taken prophylactically, has shown incredible benefits for cell regeneration, longevity, and glucose management. And the Look, the reality is, let's just take a step back. The American diet, we're all pre-diabetic, okay? So, let's just let's
[00:14:49] just not beat around the bush. The way that Americans eat and our food supply, and also probably in Western Europe, is pre-diabetic by definition. It's [ __ ] It's trash. So, Metformin makes a lot of sense. And again, its longitude data is incredible. But, I got to tell you, the early data on these GLP-1s are unbelievable. It's extraordinary, and I can tell you from first-hand experience, I would lose half a pound a week when I would diet.
[00:15:16] No, but what I'm saying is just it's it's beyond that. And what I'm talking about is insulin response. It's cardiac health. And so, if this data tracks like this, man, you just going to want to put everybody on these GLP-1s. want to also put a disclaimer out here. Do your own research. Work with your doctors, whether it's for Metformin or Ozempic. But, I had great results on it. I recommend if you're struggling with
[00:15:35] weight loss like I did for many years, you talk to your doctor about it. That said, it's not a commercial for Wegovy or Ozempic. But, I do think these things are going to change Or Mounjaro. Well, and they're getting better, and it seems like dia- People with diabetes are on them for life. So, if your question is, like, if I could do this for a year to lose weight, you know, I think diabetics are on it for life. So, when I made my
[00:15:53] decision, again, work with your doctors, not random podcasters or venture capitalists for your health advice. I was like, "Well, if all of these people have diabetes are going to on it for years, unless it's non-toxic, go get a PreNuvo scan. Just make sure you Absolutely. All right. So, there you have it. There's our predictions. Sachs, did you want to respond to any of I I want to I want the Sachs to react to my spread trade. Yeah.
[00:16:14] So, so, so, look, I think, you know, if you're going on a betting site, I think that um you could place that bet that Chamath made pretty cheaply, and probably it's like has some good upside to it. So, I don't criticize it as a bet. Do I think it's actually going to happen? No. And I I think the reason is is this, that if you look at what's happening right now with the speakers' race, there's two very clear wings in
[00:16:35] the Republican Party. There's the establishment wing, and then there's kind of this populist MAGA wing. And the candidate, whoever it is, in '24 needs to unite those two wings. And I think this is really the best argument for DeSantis is he's widely accepted by both. I think Nikki Haley's problem is that she's very well regarded within the uh establishment wing of the Republican Party, but she has no meaningful support
[00:16:58] within the populist wing. And so, I don't think she's capable of bringing the party together, at least at this point in time. She would have to prove, let's call it, populist bonafides that she just doesn't have right now. So, this is why I think, you know, DeSantis even He does have front-runner risk. You're right that people are going to keep taking shots at him as long as he's the front-runner, but All right. Let's rip through
[00:17:19] He's capable of uniting the party in a way that it desperately needs right now, as we're seeing with the Kevin McCarthy thing playing out. Yeah. Okay, let's go for our biggest losers. We'll rip through this. Last year, I said Biden and Trump in the extremes. Chamath said the progressive left, again, the extremes. Sachs said Pelosi, who just wrapped up her tenure, and Freeberg said US influence globally was the biggest political loser.