[00:43:10] the global 7500. So Okay, I I got it for, yeah, Tahoe, so yeah, similar. They're playing in your house at the same size. Yeah, exactly. So, there you go. There is a point here. People are underestimating the TAM, I think, of this product. The TAM is not existing broadband connections, it's second connections, it's connections where connections didn't exist. It's all just just so you know the the best in class the best in class
[00:43:37] broadband connection for a plane is called KA band and it costs 500 grand a year. That's ridiculous. And you can replace it for, you know, a tenth of the cost and Starlink on a plane is dramatically better bidirectionally. So, I think Starlink is going to go public and I think it's going to be a it's going to be the best chance that we have of opening up the capital markets in 2023. It's another way of saying people who own private jets, if they are
[00:44:04] flying 250 hours a year, which will probably be a reasonable number, 2 to 300 hours a year, they're paying $2,000 an hour for their internet service. That is bonkers. Okay, Sachs who is your big deal? Biggest business deal prediction for 2023? deal 23 prediction is there will be a deal between Putin and Xi. And they met by satellite late last week to discuss ways to further help each other in 2023. Putin characterized it as a no limits
[00:44:36] partnership. You may remember that the two of them inked a $175 billion gas deal in early February last year. That was 3 weeks before Putin invaded Ukraine. I think now Russia is even more dependent on China. We've really driven Russia into China's arms and I think there will be a big deal not just on energy, but on agricultural products, mineral products and rare earth minerals that, you know, Chamath likes to talk about. I think
[00:45:07] there could be a trillion dollar deal between Russia and China this year. I'm just going to go out on a limb and make a prediction. Okay, so there is your 2023 prediction of the biggest deal, the Legion of dictators is forming. I do think it's it is like you know, the axis of evil. This is more Legion of dictators like, hey, let's do business together. Freeberg you got a prediction for the biggest business deal of 2023? This is really
[00:45:30] going out on a limb here. I'll do two real quick. The first was the similar to what Sachs said, but it's kind of echoing what I said earlier, which is the petroyuan trade. I think that's the Saudi China trade. If this happens and oil is sold in yuan it marks the beginning of I think um the end of the assumption that the US dollar is the global reserve and the risk-free currency in reserve for the world. So, I think
[00:46:03] the petroyuan trade, if you guys here's the Reuters article covering Xi's visit to Saudi Arabia last month uh first or second week of December. Once this gets inked and signed, it's a real shift globally. I think the other one that I'm that I'm going to point out that I think is a bit of a out of left field one maybe and maybe I'm just going to look like a total idiot at the end of the year, but do a wild card. I like it. This is my
[00:46:28] wild card. So, my wild card is I think Apple ends up buying something completely out of the ordinary. And here's why. I think Apple's core business, they're facing significant pressure with respect to their relationship and ties to China. As you guys may have seen last week, Foxconn announced that they're actually going further downstream in terms of their production model and they're trying to diversify away from being kind of the
[00:46:50] sole service provider to Apple. Apple, as you know, is under such pressure to get out of China politically that they've started to try and invigorate activity in Vietnam and elsewhere. So, a lot of pressure on their relationship with their low-cost producer and low-cost production partner. They're also under a lot of political pressure because of the App Store revenues. You guys know this 30% App Store vig that they take. A lot of
[00:47:15] people are calling it monopolistic and anti-trust is getting involved, so they're feeling that pressure. There's also the pressure with respect to the you know, waning consumer demand for high-end electronics. Samsung last yesterday or last week and or yesterday, I think, announced significant declines in consumer demand for electronics or their forecast is such. That has to impact Apple as well. So, when you put
[00:47:37] all of this together, right? They're they're they're they're being pressured to get out of their low-cost manufacturing center, they're being pressured to stop making money on the App Store, they're being pressured because the demand may be waning. They have to do something big to kind of diversify the business. So, I think they might end up doing something like buying a real content company. Maybe they do something like buy a Disney. Maybe they
[00:47:55] do something like buy an automotive company like Fiat Chrysler. I think there are a number of these kind of like what may seem today outrageous deals that Apple might end up kind of being pressured into doing so that they can get ahead of their forecast of the impact that all these pressures are going to have on their core business. And so, I think this is something interesting to kind of think may happen this year. I I certainly have no insight
[00:48:17] or intel on on anything or I could be completely wrong on this one, but it feels like they've got to do something this year I mean, listen. I think this is I think I love your MBS China trade and that relationship, sure. Legion of dictators. But, this one is really good. It's hard to buy Disney, monopolistic issues. But, buying a car company, pretty easy because that's a fragmented market. I love this prediction.
[00:48:42] I mean, now with Tesla with this depressed stock price, Apple can make a run at Tesla. They have They could almost buy it with cash. Let alone BMW, Volvo, one of those brands they could buy easily. What a great prediction for me? The prediction is Amazon's three-legged stool grows into a sturdy chair chair with a fourth pillar. For those folks who are not familiar with how Amazon has built their businesses, there are three
[00:49:07] pillars in their stool e-commerce, obviously, when you buy stuff, Prime memberships, which is kind of considered a separate revenue stream and of course AWS cloud computing. I think the fourth is going to be this continuation of following the health stream, not advertising cuz that's not a consumer-based product, that's just a way they make money. Health is going to be a big one for them. They obviously acquired One Medical, which was a small
[00:49:29] purchase. I think they're going to buy Roman Hims, they're going to buy Peloton, they could buy a Whoop, and they're going to go all in on health and you know, that three-legged stool becomes a very sturdy chair. And my runner-up is TikTok is going to divest under duress. I think that it's going to have to go public and the Chinese are going to divest their interest in it and just take their chips because they're going to be faced with
[00:49:54] the existential threat during the political debates of the next 2 years. There will be unanimous support from Democrats and Republicans to get TikTok out of the US. Therefore, they divest. Can I just test that Sure. with you guys cuz we've talked about this a lot that hey, we're going to ban TikTok. Yes. How many of your friends' kids or your kids do you guys know spend hours a week on TikTok? It's a lot. 90%. How do you get over the
[00:50:20] political mountain of trying to ban TikTok? If you try and ban TikTok, whoever raises their hand and says we should ban TikTok and actually gets it done, they're out of office. There is going to be so much pressure and backlash because people are hooked and love that app and use it all the time. To take that away from people will feel like this kind of Young kids that don't have phones actually get everything that
[00:50:42] TikTok has on YouTube shorts. So, I don't think TikTok is that important because it it is not actually there is no sticky network effect inside that app. So, there isn't usage that's dependent on people you know or a graph that you build. It's a lot of passively consumed content and so, you know, you're you're getting pushed a lot of algor- algorithmically defined content. You can do that on YouTube. And so, I
[00:51:04] actually don't think it's that meaningfully important if TikTok goes away. I think the content creator stays. It's harder for them to build a business on YouTube shorts, but if you look at the and measure the density of content inside TikTok, it exists almost one-to-one on YouTube. Mhm. That's interesting. It's an interesting point. you think it'll you think it'll be okay if we if we cancel TikTok in the US and
[00:51:28] we say that's it, you can't have TikTok anymore. Everybody moves to YouTube and Instagram. but people will just go to YouTube and Instagram. It's not that big of a deal. In fact, a lot of the my favorites, if there was a network effect inside there, then I think people would have a reason to complain to somebody whether it's your representative or whether it's somebody else to say, "Hey, don't do this. This would have a
[00:51:48] deleterious impact on my quality of life or my quality of experience." And you could make that clear claim on Instagram, Facebook, you know, Google, YouTube. But TikTok is is much more brittle that way and that's why they need to get public sooner and monetize this bloody thing because I think that it's very easy actually to deconstruct TikTok's value into these other places. I can tell you my favorite TikTok is Chef's Reactions and I consume
[00:52:18] him now on Instagram because he posts he just copies one to the other and So, Chef's Reactions is a great example where he actually got banned by TikTok and then diversified on his own and now what he does is he publishes across multiple streams. And if you look at all the big creators, they all do that because it makes no sense to actually give the power to any one of these things. Why have a dependency? Why have a
[00:52:39] dependency? All right, let's keep the trains moving. Most contrarian belief, this is the Peter Thiel award. Your chess partner, Sachs. Who's winning in 2022 in chess? How many chess games do you have going with Peter Thiel right now? And who's higher rated, you demolished me with your Queen's Gambit. I played one game, I got killed in seven moves. I'm I'm I'm ranked at 800, 900 right now. Sachs is at 1800, he
[00:53:01] just walloped me. Who's higher rated right now, you or Peter Thiel? the Queen's Gambit. Well, you know, I just I I don't even know what it was. I was like, "What opening is this?" You're like, "Queen's Gambit, you're dead." And boom. Queen's Gambit is not a good opening. You don't want to accept the Queen's Gambit. It's a very pleasant game for white. I'm going to go on a limb here, you know, and and risk being wrong. Uh my my prediction or
[00:53:24] most contrarian belief is that the bromance between Biden and Zelenskyy comes to an end at some point in 2023. And uh let me state the the part that I think is uh conventional wisdom and everyone agrees with, which is there's going to be a massive Ukrainian counteroffensive in the spring. And I think that could go one of two ways. Either it could make limited gains, basically the Russians fight them to a stalemate, or it could be successful.
[00:53:51] And they could basically push the Russians back to the February 23rd lines and then make a play for Crimea. I predict that in either one of those circumstances, Zelenskyy's interests and Biden's interests will start to diverge. So, in the case of a stalemate, which I think is probably 50/50 here, Biden's got to start getting into election mode for 2024 and I think we're saying that we're going to be in a recession. So, I think that if there's a
[00:54:16] a stalemate, I think Biden's going to tell Zelenskyy, "Wrap this thing up. It's time to negotiate. We need to get this over with." By the same token, if the counteroffensive is successful, I think that the administration, hopefully cooler heads will prevail and not let them take Crimea. That's basically what they're gunning for is they not only want to get back to the February 23rd lines, they want to go all the way back
[00:54:37] to the 2014 lines of retaking Crimea. I think that's extremely dangerous. I think that could precipitate a nuclear war. And I think that the cooler heads in the administration will tell Zelenskyy to stand down and that's the right time to make a deal. So, I think in either one of these scenarios, I think you will start to see a divergence between the Ukrainian and the American interests and that could create a rift. And
[00:55:00] I think no one's really predicting that. I I think this is great. This is kind of what I thought the plan all along was, which was to deplete Putin of resources, distract him, and then get the West off of his oil and and and try to do regime change, but do it by bleeding him. This would be uh proof positive of that strategy, which is bleed him to the end and then sell Zelenskyy out. I think that's actually I know that's I know it's
[00:55:24] cynical, but I think that's what we're doing. I think Ukraine is a tool to deplete Putin and then maybe get to regime change. I'm cynical as it gets with this, Chamath. What's your most contrarian belief of 2023? I will go and pick that inflation, which people expect to fall off a cliff, doesn't fall off a cliff as fast or as meaningfully as people want. And so, I will explain inflation as three different chapters and we've seen
[00:55:56] the first two chapters play out. So, 2021, chapter one was all about energy inflation. And you know, we all talked about having almost $10 gas at the pump and what does it mean for everybody and it caused that initial spike in inflation. And then we had it come off and Sachs called this he said, you know, we're going to have this sort of double hump. And 2022 was really the story of goods inflation, right? All these prices and
[00:56:24] all of these things went up because the input costs went up and we all had to bear the implications of that. But then that started to ebb. And now, if you look at the tail end of 2022, what I found super interesting was the number of articles I saw about wage inflation. Whether that was Biden using an 1800s era law to prevent a railroad strike, the number of states that increased minimum wage, the trend around unionization. So, in general, my thought
[00:56:59] is that the pendulum is swinging very markedly away from capital and towards labor. And as the labor participation rate stays low and continues to go down, and also it's compounded by an unemployment rate that may go up, right? People are it's going to be harder and harder to get people to do the work you need at the company you have unless you pay them more. And if that gets exaggerated, then inflation will stay where it is. It
[00:57:29] won't be as muted and it won't fall off a cliff as people want. So, that's my big contrarian That's my big contrarian Got it. wager for this year is that we see inflation we see wage inflation that keeps inflation not going down as much as people want. This is contrarian because everybody's saying, "Hey, it's over." The consumer's back has been broken, the credit card debt is high, and everybody's being laid off, yada
[00:57:53] yada yada. Therefore, goods and services, there'll be more supply than demand and the prices will lower. Very contrarian. Free break, do you have a contrarian belief for 2023? I think my it follows my earlier points about the Saudi China Russian Russia trade this year exiting 2023. It may be the case that, you know, there's historically been this belief and this continuing belief that the US dollar will always be the de facto
[00:58:24] global reserve currency. And the current mantra is that it's better than the rest. Everyone else is worse off than the US, Western Europe is in trouble, Japan is in trouble, China is in trouble, everyone's in trouble. But if there was a coalition, an economic coalition, a a scaled economic coalition that starts to shift the balance of power a little bit and the US meanwhile is taking on extraordinary debt load,
[00:58:50] spending $1.7 trillion in an omnibus bill, you know, has this massive unfunded social security problem coming down the pipe and are trying to manage multiple funded conflicts around the world, it could be that the US dollar coming out of 2023 starts to trade more like a risk asset and less like a risk-free asset. And so, I think that that's my big contrarian bet is that maybe this year marks the beginning of the end of
[00:59:14] the US dollar as the kind of global de facto reserve currency based on some of these big trades that I talked about happening. Unbelievable. that that would be my um my big kind of contrarian. Perfectly said. That's your contrarian bet, the ax- the legion of dictators, the MBS's, etc. They become they form a new global currency. My turn, not your turn. I'm not calling it a Yeah, I wouldn't say a legion of dictators and I wouldn't say form a new
[00:59:41] global currency, but I do think that the fact that that large economic trading models start to be done in non-dollar denominated form Got it. you know, weakens the the kind of reserve status of the dollar to some degree, not fully, right? It doesn't happen in a binary way. And then the dollar starts to trade more like asset like other currencies do to some degree, not fully. So, maybe maybe this is the year we start to see that shift. Once