[00:14:31] to tie crypto to real estate like a real world asset. Tell us about what that movement is all about and what the utility is that that is there if it works. So um people want real world assets on on chain because there's demand for um in DeFi for non-correlated assets. Like if if everything that is in crypto, all this innovation around risk management in real time between you know borrows and and lenders, it's useless
[00:15:02] because if everything's a memecoin, everything's correlated. It'll all crash at the same time. There's no hedging, right? And the only free lunch in in finance is uncorrelated assets if you have true hedging. So we need real estate, bonds, insurance, whatever have you that has oil. Exactly. Commodities, but like even California fire insurance. It would be awesome to put that on chain because then people could actually buy
[00:15:29] insurance. Um all those assets if Thank you. All those assets, if they exist in this kind of global synchronized giant state machine environment, can all be used together to reduce risk for the entire system because they're uncorrelated and that's actually the the only free lunch you can get in finance. Um, so there's a lot of demand for them and the technology is there to leverage them. Now we just need kind of the regulatory
[00:15:57] No text side to catch up. Can I um change tracks a little bit? You're an engineer. You work in cryptography. Have you visited quantum projects? What do you think's the state of development in quantum computing? Everyone's got a different story. How much is kind of hype in marketing? How much is real? And what do you think is going to happen over what period of time? Honest answer, I feel like 50/50 within 5 years there is a quantum breakthrough.
[00:16:22] And part of that is because of how fast AI define breakthrough like you can run short algorithm. You we we should migrate Bitcoin to a quantum resistance signature scheme. Um this is my bet and this is because we're just so many technologies are converging right now and this asymptoic rate AI and how fast is accelerating going from a research paper to an implementation is is like astounding. Um so I would I would try to encourage folks to speed
[00:16:53] things up. My key for this is Google and Apple adopt a quantum resistant cryptographic stack. this is the time to go migrate because now the consumer side of it is effectively solved and you don't have to kind of so you watch where Google's going. Yeah. But yeah, I would I I think the the people you should be worried if you're in the field, but for the general public, quantum computing is such a massive unlock in terms of how much we
[00:17:19] can process that it's going to be as big of a wealth creator if if we pull it off as AI. So I think this is to me like a lot of work, engineering work. We have the right people to do it, but like for everyone else, it should be like a huge opportunity. But to your point, the the reports on the breakthroughs on the Willow project at Google are driven by AI modeling and AI is unlocking a lot of the capabilities to make it real, which
[00:17:44] seems to be an accelerator. It's pretty powerful. What's the intersection of all of of that world of just AI in general and crypto? Um, this is a funny thing to ask because um, I feel like AI is going to be everywhere and crypto is going to be everywhere, but where those lines cross is just really, really hard to pinpoint. I don't want to say something lame like, oh, we have agents sending money around because that's kind of obvious. Um,
[00:18:09] I mean, I think the first attempt was to kind of say maybe there are distributed networks of compute and maybe we can run distributed learning or distributed inference, but those projects really haven't taken off and really generated any momentum. Yeah, not yet. And again, because they're competing with a data center that is all colloccated, that is funded with traditional finance and and those things like and yeah, you can put those
[00:18:32] assets on chain and that that's a lot of ways how I think things are going to integrate. Probably the most kind of like singularity bet we can make is you have an agent that is a creator that is like an ex personality that you can interface with tokens and buy into and pay for the GPUs. That could be fun. But No text Bitcoin has turned out to be surprisingly resilient. Um and but now we're starting to see certain players uh
[00:18:58] corner the market on large percentages of it. And that was never supposed to happen. So if something like Micro Strategy owns 6% that's actually maybe 50% more than that because there's so many dead coins out there. Does that worry you the centralization of Bitcoin and does that mean there's an opportunity to start the game a new? Um I think Bitcoin is resilient to these entities collapsing. Now it's not going
[00:19:28] to be without painful risk that in terms of like people that own Bitcoin, but the thing is it'll survive that and all the properties of Bitcoin that people value will remain through that transition. So if you really value Bitcoin, you should see that as like an opportunity to own more of it. So even if somebody were to own 20 or 30%. It seems like there are people who actually have this intent. That's why I'm asking. Yeah. Um, I think as long as
[00:19:57] it's an open global competition for to acquire Bitcoin and anyone can participate in that and we don't end up in some kind of regulated nightmare, you know, like you can't acquire gold or something like in the 70s, um, I think Bitcoin would survive those kinds of shocks. Is Bitcoin valuable enough now where it makes sense for I guess North Korea does this but I was just going to generalize and say like state sponsored
[00:20:22] ways of either trying to penetrate it, hack it, take individual accounts like it just seems like there's an an emergent trend here of this. It is um its beauty is that it's the simplest protocol you can build because it is focused on just settlement. It's very easy to understand from an engineering point of view and uh proof of work is kind of a I don't know it is a brilliant it's masterpiece yeah it's a masterpiece in terms of like elegance
[00:20:49] and simplicity and it's very robust to I think all sorts of attacks. Now, that doesn't mean that, you know, you can't have an attack that could cause, you know, roll back that's unexpected, but I think it's extremely hard to pull off. Very unlikely, and the internet is so super connected that it can automatically kind of respond and take action. I actually meant more just like, you know, states targeting accounts that
[00:21:14] have large Bitcoin holdings and trying to figure out who owns them and then just basically getting them to give them the coins. Yeah. the those kind of state sponsored wrench attacks. Um I think what like we should do live living in the in the west is really have strong opinions about property rights and how important they are and how foundational they are to wealth creation in in the west and America. Completely agree with this
[00:21:40] and this is our best defense. I completely agree with this and be hyper transparent who owns the coins because then it's like you can't take away something that everybody knows you own. But when you try to hide your ownership of it, more likely it's easier for somebody to take it away. I I think privacy is a right. So it's somebody's right to to be able to do that. But I think our best bet in, you know, wealth creation is actually
[00:22:01] defending these rights and defending the right of somebody to to own Bitcoin if they want to. It's extraordinary that it hasn't been hacked with so much at stake. Maybe you could speak to it as just a an architect yourself and and it is. it. The reason it hasn't been hacked is because it's so simple and you know as an engineer you always strive for simplicity to achieve a certain outcome. You can't always always achieve
[00:22:24] that. Salana is much more complicated because the outcome we're striving is hyper performance and it's just hard. So like Salana is much more complicated as a result of that. But Bitcoin is designed for a very simple settlement layer that is I think you know the coolest thing the coolest piece of software written in the last 20 years is I would say the Bitcoin like Nakamoto No text implementation there's been an enormous um reanimation
[00:22:50] in the ETH market recently where do you think that comes from is that market driven and speculatively driven or do you think that there's a a fundamental reimagining of where ETH lives in you know between Bitcoin over here and Salana over here. Um, I'm a honestly a huge fan of Ethereum. Like I think Vitalik is an amazing person, amazing engineer, and has a very strong vision. It's very different from my vision for Salana, and
[00:23:16] it's really cool to see those two play out. Uh, if I could predict what I do could cause a price change, I I'd be a lot more successful. Well, you've been pretty successful, too. But right we it it's just really really hard to attribute the work that you do. Okay. So look your transaction network is quite liquid. It's going to become more and more and more as you have more validators, more clients, all that stuff. Um another market that seems
[00:23:44] has built a monopoly or a duopoly around transactions who's a little bit at risk is Visa and Mastercard. What do you think about that? My my like uh contrary opinion is that I think Visa and Mastercard are more technology companies and if you look at their like profit margin on the gross payment volume it's like 10 basis points. It's like vapor. I think the the issuer and receiver bank those are the most disruptible pieces on there
[00:24:11] because their profit margins are like 2% like much much bigger right and Visa is a technology company that owns end to end the customer. If they could remove the banks out of the loop and just do stable coin transfers behind the scenes, I think they become a lot more successful and they can do a lot more for, you know, a lot less. Long stable coin, short banks. That I not an investor, but maybe Chimoth seems like a good premise.
[00:24:38] I can't comment on this. So that's a yes. Everybody, everybody short the bank. Everybody telling you to do this. This is financial advice. Unless it doesn't work out. [Applause] Thank you so much. [Applause] Appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. You're awesome, dude. Appreciate it.