[00:00:00] No text [Music] Anatoli is the CEO of a little crypto project known as Solana, one of the fastest growing blockchains in the world. As CEO of Salana Labs, he's driving web 3 innovation. Black Rockck, the world's largest asset manager, expanded its $1.7 billion tokenized money market fund to Salana. Why don't we all switch to Salana? I mean, Salana sounds like it's actually commercial and the other guys sound like
[00:00:27] that they're antique. Everybody in the world should be your customer. Crypto will eventually win. It's inevitable. [Music] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Salana co-founder Anatoli Yakaveno. [Music] There he is. Oh man, thanks for having me. You doing? Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. No text How much of a difference has David Sachs made in the first six months as cryptozar for your industry? Oh, it's been incredible. Um, I mean, I
[00:01:05] think it it's night and day. I don't know if the industry would have survived another four years of the Gendler regime. Um, the Genius Act, I think, is going to unlock, you know, people estimate 1 to10 trillion dollars worth of stable coins uh that are going to be on public permissionless chains. So if you kind of look at those charts who owns treasuries and people it's China, Japan etc. countries right now I think
[00:01:30] tether is somewhere around number five I think within 5 years the internet is going to be the largest holder of US treasuries. Yeah and and at such a scale that I think you know I'm an engineer I cannot honestly comprehend how that's going to change finance but I think it'll be transformative. upside downside. I mean, are there concerns there as well with that huge impact in democratization or are you kind of a, you know,
[00:01:56] libertarian, let the chips fall where they may, so to speak? I think um it's a huge opportunity to really accelerate American innovation and spread American finance around the world. I think we actually have the best financial system in the world. It's the most trusted, the most robust, the best regulatory environment for for what it's worth as well. Um, but it was built after World War II before the internet.
[00:02:21] So, its APIs are kind of like a fax machine based. What crypto is allowing, I think, is this new technology stack built on top of the internet that's completely western aligned. It's for transparency. It's for capitalism, but now we can actually interface western US-based finance to the rest of the world. And I I think America is going to benefit primarily from this like more dissimilar to our media business going
[00:02:48] around the world and you know infecting people's consciousness when you were getting Salana off the ground. How much of it was um a technical and architectural vision that you had versus maybe a set of trade-offs that you were trying to solve that ETH didn't fill or Bitcoin didn't fill and you said I'm just going to try and do this. I I think you know I can't speak for all founders but you know I think founders
[00:03:15] are driven by kind of crazy vision. They have to be a little bit insane. Um, so my insane vision is always this idea like imagine finance 20 to 50 years from now. The science fiction version of finance. What I imagine is a single giant ledger, a single computer for every market in the world. That means it's available in Nairobi, New York, in London, in Singapore. And all of these things are synchronized at the roundtrip
[00:03:42] time of speed of light through fiber around the world or, you know, through Elon satellites. That's 120 milliseconds. So a dollar can be in New York, in London, in Singapore, in Nairobi in 120 milliseconds. So velocity of money, velocity of assets are as fast as physics allow. Um, this is what nerdpilled me on building this like it's a physics problem. It's a massive finance problem. It's a really fun engineering low latency.
[00:04:13] And did you feel that you had missed it somehow? Um when I when I had my kind of Eureka moment and I did the back of the envelope calculation for design, I'm like, "Oh, this is a thousand times faster than ETH." And when I started talking to folks in the ETH community, they're focused on settlement. Settlement doesn't have these latency problems. You can do settlement in minutes and that's fine. So I always felt that, you know, Ethereum being
[00:04:39] world's settlement layer, Salana is the world's execution layer. Um, and you know, um, I, you know, so far so good. Yeah, so far so good. Execution is where all the money's made. So, I think we're on the right track. And, uh, a fast execution engine can also do settlement. That's kind of a feature. So, you've been, um, super critical about two projects. Uh, memecoins, even though they they do throw off, I think, some revenue for Salana, and also
[00:05:07] the idea of a crypto strategic reserve. What about those two projects um tweak you a bit? Um I think primarily we could not p predict what's going to happen on chain. We called it blockchain and NASDAQ speed. That was our tagline and the idea was always how do we get stocks and bonds and treasuries and real world assets on chain from all around the world to be traded by everybody around the world. Um, but it turns out that is
[00:05:36] a much harder legal and regulation problem than it is an engineering problem. But anybody in the world can create markets for anything, including memecoins, including NFTs. And those things took off. I think in part because of how slow regulation was to catch up, which makes it annoying that those are the things that come out instead of your true mission. No text Yep. We saw we saw Dena from NASDAQ here yesterday. she announced the
[00:06:02] tokenization of uh securities that we're going to trade on the exchange. There seem to be a lot of regulated exchanges and businesses that come from that kind of deeply regulated background starting to experiment with blockchain technology. Do you think they're going to be advantaged or disadvantaged given where they're coming from? Does the lock in with regulators, the relationship with regulators, lock in with the market
[00:06:22] participants give them some leg up or do you think that the disruptors are ultimately going to be able to operate more freely and more quickly? This is the big challenge. Um I think the advantage that we have that we are very nimble and we can operate everywhere in the world. The advantage that they have is that they're already regulated. They're they're already operating with those assets that we want on chain in
[00:06:44] United States but they don't have global availability. NASDAQ is still in its little sandbox. Um so we'll see what happens. I think once the regulators allow uh public keys like cryptography to manage and transfer assets that's the interface that you can wrap around and start moving fund you know start moving anything from inside NASDAQ to Salana and vice versa like once that interface exists I think you kind of the genies
[00:07:11] out of the bottle you know the the toothpast is out of the tube. Do you ever meet with the regulated exchanges and are there ways to kind of build integration and partnership that benefits both? Of course. Yeah. So we've we've talked to folks I think across the spectrum from banks to regulated exchanges and and regulators themselves. Salana is fundamentally a protocol. It's like an email standard. It's a bunch of
[00:07:32] software. Um the people that run it don't report to me. I can't fire them. So I can't stop it if I wanted to. Um, and if we succeed, if the protocol is awesome and globally synchronous and super fast, NASDAQ would make more money by just running a Salana node and integrating with it more directly. So, like to me, it's ultimately a win-win. We're never going to build an exchange that is on boarding US institutionals
[00:07:57] and serving US customers. We want NASDAQ to do that and to run it on Salana, and that would be great. There's um there's a common claim by the masses, meaning uh masses meaning not everybody that's sort of all in on crypto that it's still extremely complicated to understand. You know, even if it's like just minting and burning or you know, yield farming, you say it to just like the norm core person and their eyes glaze over. Um what's the
[00:08:22] turn in the abstraction of all of this stuff that makes crypto truly ma mass market? I actually think that the human brain has to change to adjust to it. I agree with you. It's really complicated. But I landed in the States in 1992 from the USSR effectively. And there's no way my parents could understand what a web link was, right? So it it's all whenever you have a new technology, it just takes people a long time to adopt it and build a mental
[00:08:50] model for it. But now they do. They understand the web after years of of using it. So I think as stable coins proliferate to the back office in a lot of companies, people will figure out, oh, this secret key is actually really important. I need hardware. I need PKI. I need trusted displays. All all of the security stuff. And they will build a mental model for cryptography having true ownership over something that is
[00:09:14] globally transferable. I saw a chart recently that showed that the number of L1 and L2 projects keep growing year-over-year over like the last three or four years. Why is that happening? Um, I think I think because this what what need are they filling? Well, I think the opportunity is so big to be the Google of finance, right? If you're like the one place for all of finance, all markets run. That is a massive opportunity. So, I think people
[00:09:43] are going to keep launching L1's and L2s and all competitive. They're all competing with Salana and that's fine. I love competition. Uh, until somebody wins it. Um, I think as long as we're laser focused on improving the product, making it faster, cheaper, more reliable, we have a really good shot of of actually becoming that global execution engine that's serving all of No text finance. Outside of finance, what do you think is
[00:10:07] the vertical that has the most promise over the next 5 years in crypto or in general? in crypto, whether it's for Salana or any crypto project, where do you think people aren't putting enough attention? Um, I think all the stuff that people have tried, it's kind of like early 90 days experimentation, frontster, all of those things failed until there was a critical mass of people that understood how the web works and then Facebook took
[00:10:35] off. So I think even the weird experiments with NFTTS being a way to create a community of artists to build a movie or story and create true new IP all that will happen just 5 years from now or 10 years once we hit critical map. So a lot of false starts and somewhere in that graveyard you might find some really good ideas. Absolutely. Just like what happened and then the social network concept always seemed to
[00:10:59] me to be such a winner. you know, whether it would be like a dig or a Reddit format where you could vote things up with a cryptocurrency. Your comments were somehow related to that. And there were a couple of little experiments I remember looking at for investment, but candidly I didn't think the founders would pull it off and I was right in that case. Is that the one that you think could break out if Elon put
[00:11:20] into X, Dogecoin, or put in Salana and there was some sort of currency inherent to the objects and the behaviors? I personally think that you could build a competitive product to Tik Tok with crypto if the magic you caught that kind of lightning in a bottle because the monetization mechanism with crypto is so different than the ad-based one and the ad-based one kind of creates this forcing function for a lot of spam and
[00:11:46] duplication to ride to the top. How would that work? Just describe your product thinking there that that new kind of experience. How do you think it would work? I think you're kind of seeing some of these things play out with memecoins where you have creators that are associated with a coin that continues to have uh market cap and traction. And now the regulatory environment isn't here yet to clearly tie the success of that creator to the
[00:12:10] value of that coin. You need to remove a whole bunch of bottlenecks there. But the product exists. People watch that particular creator stream and go buy that coin. Like once it's once it is actually looks like an investment thing that Jason would be like okay I have all legal protection to actually put money in here. I think this is related to the financing question I was asking Neil and Ari about which is can creators raise funding this
[00:12:34] way and then can they deploy that funding but then the coin holders can actually have equity in that project and in the performance of that project over time rather than it just be you know if if the regulatory environment changes like people have been dancing around this but like there's this project that I love Clanosaurus is these cute little dinosaurs that are they've like kids love it looks like a Pixar dinosaur
[00:12:57] they've won awards for their animations and they raised funding because they created this collective set of of dinos. Now, it would be awesome if those dinos could actually have copyright and revenue association in the future, but like we can't do that yet, and that's frustrating, but it could totally happen once we have enough clarity. Well, just imagine like we we bought collectibles and if we all bought Marvel
[00:13:20] comics when we were, you know, younger, but we had equity in Marvel and 30, 40 years later those characters hit and you own Could be Beast. I mean, it could be Mr. Beast or it could also be the next creator. Like, you're watching an up and cominging creator. You want to bet on that? Is that the next piece Sax is working on? Is that the um the Clarity Act is the big piece. It's kind of a big piece of Explain it for everybody. Yeah.
[00:13:41] So, um again, I'm an engineer. This is from my lens is raising money in the US and trying to launch a token. Uh we raised a seat seed in a round. It was about 14 million bucks, which is amazing. It was, you know, like outright crazy success for a new a first-time founder. I had to spend two million of that on lawyer fees, which is a more than 10% of my runway to figure out how to launch a token in United States. And
[00:14:08] because I have kids in the US, this is my home, never leaving it. So, I had to do it in America. A lot of founders actually just left to do it outside of the US. So the Clarity Act is a whole bunch of complicated legislation to try to minimize hopefully that cost to make it much easier for founders to launch. It's far too much friction right now. Provides clarity. Our um our partner David Saxs launched a company a few years ago that was trying
[00:14:31] to tie crypto to real estate like a real world asset. Tell us about what that movement is all about and what the utility is that that is there if it works. So um people want real world assets on on chain because there's demand for um in DeFi for non-correlated assets. Like if if everything that is in crypto, all this innovation around risk management in real time between you know borrows and and lenders, it's useless
[00:15:02] because if everything's a memecoin, everything's correlated. It'll all crash at the same time. There's no hedging, right? And the only free lunch in in finance is uncorrelated assets if you have true hedging. So we need real estate, bonds, insurance, whatever have you that has oil. Exactly. Commodities, but like even California fire insurance. It would be awesome to put that on chain because then people could actually buy
[00:15:29] insurance. Um all those assets if Thank you. All those assets, if they exist in this kind of global synchronized giant state machine environment, can all be used together to reduce risk for the entire system because they're uncorrelated and that's actually the the only free lunch you can get in finance. Um, so there's a lot of demand for them and the technology is there to leverage them. Now we just need kind of the regulatory
[00:15:57] No text side to catch up. Can I um change tracks a little bit? You're an engineer. You work in cryptography. Have you visited quantum projects? What do you think's the state of development in quantum computing? Everyone's got a different story. How much is kind of hype in marketing? How much is real? And what do you think is going to happen over what period of time? Honest answer, I feel like 50/50 within 5 years there is a quantum breakthrough.
[00:16:22] And part of that is because of how fast AI define breakthrough like you can run short algorithm. You we we should migrate Bitcoin to a quantum resistance signature scheme. Um this is my bet and this is because we're just so many technologies are converging right now and this asymptoic rate AI and how fast is accelerating going from a research paper to an implementation is is like astounding. Um so I would I would try to encourage folks to speed
[00:16:53] things up. My key for this is Google and Apple adopt a quantum resistant cryptographic stack. this is the time to go migrate because now the consumer side of it is effectively solved and you don't have to kind of so you watch where Google's going. Yeah. But yeah, I would I I think the the people you should be worried if you're in the field, but for the general public, quantum computing is such a massive unlock in terms of how much we