[00:00:00] Trey Stevens, Shyam Sankar, welcome to the All-in podcast at the Hill and Valley Forum. Thank you guys for being here. What's up? How are you guys doing? >> having us. Doing great. >> to be here, too. You guys are friends, right? You guys go back all like a long time? Very long time. Okay, tell us how you guys know each other. Palantir anduril, what's the connection and the history? Well, I'll start. You can fill in all the gaps. I
[00:00:22] feel like I know the story you're going to tell, and it's going to be very uncomfortable.
[00:00:30] Every few years, a new ad channel opens before the market catches on. That's axon.ai right now. The AI ad platform behind one of the biggest runs in tech with access to over a billion daily active users. Full-screen video ads in mobile games watched for a median of 35 seconds. Businesses are profitably spending hundreds of thousands of dollars a day on it, and most advertisers don't even know it exists yet. The window is open at
[00:00:52] axon.ai/allin. So, Trey, I think, you know, in the early days of Palantir, I was roaming around giving demos to anyone who could possibly want to see them. Trey was working in an intel agency and happened to see one of these demos, and he should tell you his version of it, his side of it, his frustration with bureaucracy. But, I think he he realized like, "Hey, this this might be really cool. Maybe I should leave the hellhole
[00:01:16] I'm in in the basement of this building getting nothing done, talking about sports with other people to to go join this crusade." So, Trey reached out and applied. Um he he made a big faux pas. He came all the way to Palo Alto, and he he wore a full-on suit, tie, cuff links, CIA cuff links, mind you. Coming to interview with I don't know, we probably 20 people, you know, who wore t-shirts and, you know, second-hand
[00:01:43] me-down clothes. Um and I you know, he was intercepted in the lobby by a receptionist who really cared about him and told him to get ditch the tie and try to dress down and don't screw it up too bad, but we loved him immediately, and he helped us build the uh the government business. So, this was at Palantir. You were there employee 13, 2006, right? So, this is pretty early on. Yeah, I I came in in early 2008, but
[00:02:07] there were uh still, you know, 25, 30 people at that point. Pretty small. And Peter kind of incubated it, was involved at the beginning, right? Peter Thiel. Maybe you could just recap cuz I know a lot of folks know the history of Palantir, but just kind of like the early stand-up of Palantir and how things got going during that era with that small group, how you guys kind of figured out how to build the business.
[00:02:26] Yeah, it was it was one of these things that was kind of a slow start. It was there was a a real idea amongst the uh the five co-founders, including Peter, that um you know, it's kind of insane to live in a world post-9/11 where people are arguing about what's more important, privacy or security. Like, aren't they both really important? And who is actually spending time pushing out the efficient frontier? For any amount of
[00:02:46] given security, you should have more privacy than you had before. Or any amount of given privacy, you should have more security. Uh and and this sort of changing the dialectic there was really the the entire impetus of what we started with. And now there's a technical approach that follows from that. There's an approach to privacy and civil liberties that are around that. Um but really we started as a business that
[00:03:05] was pretty myopically focused on solving a handful of problems in counterterrorism for a handful of institutions in the world. Let me start by asking a question that I think is important to ask, particularly for a broad audience. And for the two of you to frame your personal philosophical views. Is war good? There's a lot of conversation about there are is a military industrial complex that has an incentive for war.
[00:03:28] What's your view, your philosophical motivation for why you do what you do, what your view is of war and defense and and the work that your business has kind of pursued? Well, any anyone who's been to war would tell you that war is awful. War is bad. Catorically bad. That doesn't mean it's always avoidable. And that um you know, there will there are people who will want to use might to make right. To define a set of
[00:03:52] rules. Um and you have to be in a position to protect your people and your interests accordingly. At the end of the day, it's all about deterrence. You don't want to go to war, but you want to be prepared so that if you do have to go to war, that you will win decisively and quickly. I've never met a general that has said, "You know what I really want to do today? I want to make phone calls letting parents know that their children
[00:04:15] have died in combat." Nobody wants to do that. And and I think that that's really the goal of everything we were working on at Palantir. That's what we're working on at Anduril, which is make it unthinkable to your adversaries that they should ever challenge you. Why do you think it became taboo and became so negative, particularly in Silicon Valley, that building a defense company or company building technology to service the
[00:04:35] defense sector was viewed with with such disdain and was untouchable sector for so long? I think it's a beautiful consequence, and I mean I mean it unironically, of kind of the peaceful world that we lived in. The origin story of Silicon Valley is actually defense. You know, Lockheed was the largest employer in in Silicon Valley in the 1950s. The Corona spy satellites were built there. So, in a world that was
[00:04:58] gripped by the threat of the Soviet Union, you know, you had a very different posture in Silicon Valley. But, in a world post the end of the Cold War, the end of history, kind of a view of globalism that it's all going to be great that we exist beyond the confines of our country, these things were viewed much more cynically, and the threats didn't seem very real. And I think you could even backtest this through the moment where
[00:05:21] Silicon Valley kind of really woke up and realized, "Hey, maybe these things are real." were when the Russian tanks rolled across the Ukraine border. You know, it's when they realized and there are a lot of Ukrainian, Eastern European, there are a lot of people who were affected by that in Silicon Valley who started to realize that maybe there's a more nuanced issue here than just simple the simple Eisenhower
[00:05:41] quote of the military-industrial complex. I think many of the people who were protesting Silicon Valley's involvement in working on national security priorities were the exact same people that had Ukraine flag in bio. Um, so there's clearly just like a policy mismatch, uh, or an understanding mismatch. The other thing that I would have mentioned is that these large tech companies, uh, unlike many epics prior,
[00:06:03] uh, were global technology companies. They didn't necessarily view themselves as American. Uh, and so if you go and you look at, you know, where these protests came from, you have to keep in mind that a lot of the signatures that they had on these, you know, protests, uh, were not coming from US citizens. And so there there was like a global character to these companies that probably was not the case during the
[00:06:23] Cold War. Given that's changed recently? I mean, to Sham's point, I think that there's just an increased awareness of the complexity of the geopolitical situation. Um, and I I I think it's certainly a lot less controversial work on these topics than it was in 2017, 2018. You know, it's a 20-year overnight success, right? And Anduril's now reportedly raising money at a $60 billion valuation, just landed a $20 billion army contract.
[00:06:48] Palantir today is worth $400 billion. The flip side of what I just said is that some people are saying that Silicon Valley is taking over defense, and Silicon Valley is the next story of the American war machine. This has become sort of a popular narrative. Can you just respond a little bit to kind of where we were coming out of World War II from a defense industry perspective, where we find ourselves where Silicon Valley seems to be at the
[00:07:16] center of this today? You know, the industrial base that won World War II and the early Cold War was not a defense industrial base. It was an American industrial base. You know, Chrysler made the Minuteman ICBM. They were the prime contract on it, and they make mini vans. So, missiles and mini vans. General Mills, the cereal company, had a mechanics division. Everything they learned doing R&D to process grains,
[00:07:36] they actually used to build torpedoes and inertial guidance systems. Ford built satellites until 1990. So, the entire economy was invested not only in economic prosperity, but also underwriting the freedom that allowed us to have economic prosperity. It's really a consequence of the end of the Cold War. So, when the Berlin Wall still stood in 1989, only 6% of spending on major weapon systems went to pure play defense
[00:07:58] specialists. 94% of it went to what I call as dual-purpose companies. You know, yeah, a missile is single use. It's not a dual-use product. You're not going to buy it at Walmart. But, that actually these companies were invested in both parts of this. That figure today is e 6% goes to defense specialists. So, we have a very different structure of the US economy as a result. And I I think it leads to very perverse narratives. So, what would it
[00:08:21] be like to mobile If things got really bad, we'll just flip a switch and our auto factories will magically turn into enabling us provide for our defense and security. And and I think a cold-eyed look at history is it took 18 months to do that. We actually started ramping up to provide this stuff for our allies, for the Brits and the Soviets in the context of World War II. And that we've actually missed some of those signals
[00:08:43] today. When when Ukraine went through 10 years of production in 10 weeks of fighting, that probably should have been a five-alarm fire that we got the fundamental calculus on deterrence wrong. We thought the stockpile was going to deter our adversaries. It was always the factory. It was the ability to generate and regenerate the stockpile. Well, let's look at where we are today. So, in terms of defense readiness relative to our adversaries,
[00:09:06] 10,000 to one drone production gap versus China, 223x shipbuilding capacity disadvantage. And I think you've set a 2027 Taiwan window of danger. High level, we spend more than any other nation on defense. How ready are we? And how long will it take us? Well, our joint force is the best in the world. And so, I you know, I I think we have to couch the alarmism and commentary in that context here. But, I think if you
[00:09:34] look at like the the rate of change, our adversaries are moving very quickly. If you just look at the empirical loss of deterrence, you had the annexation of Crimea in 2014, the militarization of the Spratly Islands in 15, Iran with breakout capability to get the bomb in 17. You've had a pogrom in Israel. You have the Houthis holding trade hostage in the Red Sea, not to mention the present conflict. So, when you look at
[00:09:54] that, you how can you not feel that deterrence is eroding? To Trey's earlier point of having capabilities that are so scary that picking a fight isn't worth it. And people are investing significantly on the low end of the mix. Our high end is still unquestionably amazing. But, you know, you can't keep shooting $2 million interceptors at $20,000 drones and have that math work very long. I think the second part, like
[00:10:16] why does it matter that we lost the American industrial base and have a defense industrial base is you lose volume. You lose the R&D stimulus to come up with creative ideas like using the methodology of building a bathtub to build the next generation low-cost cruise missile, right? And you get stuck in these platforms that are absolutely eye-wateringly amazing, but are $2 million a pop. And you just can't produce them at the scale or at with the
[00:10:37] speed that you really need to. Right. And Trey, you've talked about this. You wrote an article, "No Solvency, No Security." Just share with us your view on the importance of this industrial base and what it takes for us to have strong defense requisite in a strong manufacturing industrial base. I mean, we really kind of sent most of these capabilities away during the last 30 years of globalization, and that gutted
[00:11:01] entire communities in the United States. You know, I mentioned in this article that just in my immediate family, like grandparents, aunts, uncles, I have family members that worked at GM, at Ford, at Frigidaire, at National Cash Register, at Armco Steel. Every single one of these factories in Ohio closed. Not a single one still exists. And they all have different places they've gone around the world. But, you know, one of the things we're
[00:11:26] doing with Anduril right now is we're building out a 5 million square foot factory campus in Columbus, Ohio, and we have the benefit of going back and tapping into that knowledge base that exists that's underemployed at the moment because this the factories that kept them busy for many, many years are closed. Um and I think this is the story all over America. Like if you think about the at scale manufacturing for a new
[00:11:51] company started in the this century uh in the 2000s, um there's really only one that comes to mind, just Tesla. That's it. And so we haven't really built any muscle around new manufacturing capacity. Um and and I think that as you spin things up to Shawn's point, we don't have the ability to do that quickly because we've atrophied massively by by turning all this away globally. So um I I think readiness is a real problem and uh we
[00:12:19] have to start investing ahead of the the you know, conflict being being there cuz you can't just start at the moment that it's absolutely needed. >> Tell us about the Arsenal One and then the manufacturing behind it. And then I want to just understand a little bit about is this product led or production capacity led? Do we need to make selections and have capital committed to bringing product to market before we
[00:12:41] start to build out the base or is there an alternative way to get ready? Arsenal One is our the factory campus that we're building in Columbus. Um the operating system for that, the Arsenal platform, um is really intended to reduce the uh the cost, the overhead that's required to uh automate and uh you know, handle these processes in the most efficient way possible. So there's like kind of the software layer that sits behind
[00:13:06] that. We're actually working with Palantir, uh the foundry platform, on some of these programs as well. And uh the idea behind this is that you want it to be as modular as possible. If we build out the factory campus and we said, "We're just going to build theories here or we're just going to build road runners here or just going to build barracudas here." That provides a tremendous limitation in a in the moment
[00:13:26] of a conflict to be able to be responsive to the demand for specific things that are relevant to that conflict. And so we're kind of thinking about this more like contract manufacturers think about building assembly capacity where they say, "Yep, we make, you know, this VR headset for Facebook. We make this VR headset for Samsung. We make this VR headset for Apple. We build a skill set around building optic systems,
[00:13:52] but we're going to build a bunch of them. And we're going to we're going to be much more effective at doing that by hitting the network of scale, you know, get lower costs on all the individual parts. You're going to build out a supply chain to to work through that. That's roughly what we're doing in this case is we're saying like a contract manufacturer, we want to be able to pivot on a dime into ramping up
[00:14:10] production of Roadrunners if we need Roadrunners or ramping up production of Barracudas if we need Barracudas. The counter example to this, of course, is what we saw in the early days of Ukraine where what they really wanted was more Stingers and Javelins. The problem is is that we once we burned through our inventory in the warehouse of the Stingers and Javelins, the assembly line to build Stingers and Javelins didn't exist.
[00:14:32] All the people that worked on those assembly lines were retired. And so the primes were literally calling people out of retirement to come back and teach them how to build Stingers and Javelins again. And so these are problems that we're trying to avoid by the design of the factory as a as an initial concept. >> Who funds it? So is there a government contract that supports the production of these facilities? And are multiple
[00:14:54] companies going to be able to afford to to stand these up to make these investments or is this just going to end up being an Anduril because you've got most of the capital and you guys are going to roll these facilities out? And how do we make this kind of a national interest? Well, our business model is definitely very different from the primes who are basically responding to things as requirements directly from