[01:03:06] as a nation is not homicide, it's suicide. And it's it's in this vein. It's the internal discord, it's the division, uh it's the it's the self-loathing, it's uh you know, things like the socialist movement, which I think are symptomatic of this internal discord and ensuring opportunity for our people to the point of a functioning elite. If you were to go backwards and think about the root cause, like maybe we
[01:03:28] don't have an elite that cares enough about the prosperity of the American people. And we've made decisions through globalization. We were told NAFTA was going to be a great thing. That actually if you lost your job in manufacturing, why don't you just learn how to code? You know, there's a certain sort of callousness in that and you know, I'm not an unabashed free market I'm clearly not a communist, but there's a sense of
[01:03:47] where the decision on the margin actually really does matter and that comes down to leadership. I think one thing that makes me a little hopeful is that socialism literally doesn't work. Um and so, you know, you look at, you know, what happened in San Francisco even where, you know, we elect Chesa Boudin as the district attorney and then we're like, oh wow, this is not going well. Recall him. Yeah. We have the
[01:04:08] board of education >> Rooted in a selling point of empathy. Right. Right fundamentally. Yeah. Uh what happened with the board of education getting recalled, you know, Daniel Lurie coming in as the mayor. Uh you know, we felt like we kind of went into this valley and sort of hit rock bottom. Um but I do think that people eventually realize that it doesn't it just fundamentally doesn't work. >> Seattle and Washington state are likely
[01:04:30] going to lose a large number of their biggest employers and as that happens they'll come through on the other side probably. Might take them 7 to 10 years to get there. It might be painful and it might take them a long time, but I think they'll eventually come to their senses. >> What do you two disagree on? That's a great question. Yeah. Um we actually, I'll be honest, we bickered with each other quite a bit at Palantir.
[01:04:50] Um and usually it was Shawn being right about something and me taking a long time to come come along to his point of view. Um but uh yeah, I think, you know, any of these cultures that are like well functioning are rooted in debate. Um and you know, eventually But you're avoiding my question. Whether it's whether it's actions or outlooks. Whether you should show up to your interview at a tech company in a suit. Yeah, I know. Well, no, I I will
[01:05:17] say this because it actually is part of the story of Anduril. I thought that it was a bad decision at Palantir to be as quiet as we were. I thought that we needed to get out there and tell the story so that there would be data that says things like what Shawn said about like we don't have any data. We are Excel. Um and we had a very kind of quiet reserved comms strategy. Um And we went back and forth on that a lot. And
[01:05:42] when I started Anduril, I was like, you know, all the positive things we learned about uh doing business with the government from Palantir, the one lesson that I learned that we didn't implement at Palantir is we're going to go out there and tell our story. Um and I think that's worked for us incredibly well. And I'll be honest, I think Palantir has come along to to my my side of the of that debate. And last question, if we
[01:06:01] don't do things right, what does 2040 look like? And if we do do things right, what does 2040 look like? Economic and defense. Well, the the economic part is I think the the critical one cuz national security is not an end unto itself. It's a means to an end. And that that end is economic prosperity, the prosperity of the American people. Um I you know, I think no country's done more to develop the world. Like how did
[01:06:21] integrated circuits and microelectronics get to Southeast Asia? We sent them there. Yeah, we benefited in terms of trade there, but you know, like which other winner in a war spent their own capital to rebuild the conquer conquered, you know, in Japan and Germany. And and now you have the stability as a result of it. So when I think about what could go wrong is you actually have a Chinese century that we never recover from. That
[01:06:43] literally everyone in the world is a vassal state to China and might makes right in their sort of world, you know? And we we shouldn't forget. It's like it's very clear even in the present moment that for the CCP, it's not enough for China to prosper. America must fall. That's an explicit part of the strategy. Look, it is a business decision if you want to buy American or Brazilian soybeans. I actually don't begrudge you
[01:07:02] one iota which decision you make there. It's an entirely different decision when you're smuggling agricultural fungicides into the US so that we can't grow soybeans. That's the sort of zero-sum frame that I think 2040 will look like if we get this wrong. And if we get it right, I think what we actually see is a massive re-industrialization of America followed by the West. Um we see a thriving middle class, which I define
[01:07:23] qualitatively as a middle class that believes their children's future will be better than their future, which is something that I feel is is a fundamental promise that's broken down over the last 30 years or so. Uh and a belief in our institutions once again. Yeah, no, completely agree with all those points. Uh I I think there's a big component here around education that we haven't talked about as well, where we
[01:07:42] figured out a way to educate and successfully enter our young people into a marketplace that uh needs them and that benefits from their services. Um and I I think that we we haven't quite nailed that. Um but I I do think that the re-industrialization point of this is going to be kind of the the central point of uh making sure that China's many many decade Belt and Road strategy is not going to put us in a position where we literally just can't
[01:08:09] do anything. >> Do we need military and industrial primacy or can we operate in a multipolar world where the US can share influence and economic prosperity with China, perhaps Russia, perhaps one or two other nation states? Well, the the challenge with not being the leader is that you don't get to set the terms of engagement. And so I think the the benefit that we have had uh since really the end of World War II is
[01:08:35] that we've had the primary seat at the table to say, "This is how we're going to do uh you know, semiconductors. This is how we're going to do supply chain. This is how we're going to protect trade lanes." And I think the moment that you step back from that uh and someone else has all those incentives, uh you start playing the rules of their game, and it doesn't stay multipolar for long. Well, I really appreciate the two of you being
[01:08:56] here. Trey, Shawn, thank you guys. This has been great. Thank you. Thank you, guys. I'm going all in.
[01:09:16] I'm going all in.