[00:37:36] where there's kind of a renewed vigor around being asked, private industry being asked, "What do you need? Like, tell us what you need to be changed about the way that we do business in order to streamline this and make it go faster." So, I I I think there's a lot of positive momentum. Do you guys think these changes have been institutionalized or are they political party dependent? If the Republicans lose the midterms
[00:37:58] and there's a Democrat president in 2028, do you think that there's a reversion to the old way of operating that's going to have some political influence and change things or do you think we've really changed how things are are running in the government here? >> I don't think it's political, but I think it's people. So, you can go back to, again, Ash Carter, Democratic administration, highly focused on fixing
[00:38:18] these problems. The current Trump administration, highly focused on fixing these problems. And that you know, there are a lot of people that that were in the middle of that that didn't prioritize this. It wasn't you know, it didn't rise to the top of the stack. And so I think we always think of like the bureaucracy as being a political infrastructure or an institution or you know, a bureaucracy. I actually just think at the end of the
[00:38:42] day it's about leadership. It's just do we have the right people that understand the set of the problems that we're we're facing. I couldn't agree more. I mean I call them heretics and heroes. Like you you know, that the entropy of the bureaucracy is always towards some sort of sclerosis. It doesn't it's not a political statement. It's just is what bureaucracy does. When David Packard, who's probably the last major technology
[00:39:01] co-founder who served in the Department of Defense, when he came up with the 5000 series on acquisition, which today we view as just sclerotic BS that's that's tied us down. Well, he his document was seven pages long. In the in the years between when he wrote that and now it's 2000 pages. So did he really screw us or did just the entropy take hold and there was no strong leadership in between to go do the bushwhacking and
[00:39:23] mow the lawn and and and make the right decisions. Now, you know, this this administration's blown up JCS, which is kind of one of these insane bureaucratic processes. Like can you just take a forget a scalpel, take a machete and start clearing the jungle and re-earn some of these lessons as you go through it. If you look at Kelly Johnson, who was the founder of Skunk Works, he built 41 airframes in his career including the
[00:39:43] SR-71, still the fastest flying manned aircraft, and and the U-2 which we still fly. Like what you look at his rules. One of his rules was he had to play defense to keep the government bureaucrats out of his program. And I think you could you know, okay, it's not it's not a critique of government. You could think of big corporations. When the big corporations bureaucracy gets into the innovation folks, the innovation stops. And the
[00:40:05] heretics and heroes were really founders. They were founders. It's like from a tech perspective, that's exactly what they were. Like the to the Kelly Johnson point, the U-2 did not start as a US military aircraft because they didn't want it. He ended up going through the intelligence community to get his start there. And and it was kind of finding the right person that was willing to take the risk to do the thing rather than relying on
[00:40:28] the system or the institution to do that. This is the same with Benny Schriever with ICBMs, Admiral Rickover with the nuclear navy. It used to be about people. But today, if you were to go to the Pentagon and say who's responsible for the F-35? I'm not sure they even know. Who is responsible for the F-35? We're we're building systems by by committee rather than trusting the founders and people of the world. >> like a proclamation. It's so great. It's
[00:40:52] this X, Y, or Z project is built in all 50 states. Like the objective is it's it's being the money's being spread around versus How do you achieve the objective? The F-35 has components manufactured in 400 congressional districts. Right. I mean that's like that's a political project. >> this AB test with SLS and Starship, right? Like SLS they had to have subs in all 50 states. But this AB test has been played out.
[00:41:16] >> I do think there's something about the kind of Calvinist spirit of America that sometimes gets us to misunderstand. You know, we call it the Apollo program, but it was probably it's it's really the Gene Kranz program. You know, it's the F-16, but it's really John Boyd's plane. And and there's like a humility where we never want to call it, you know, you wouldn't call it although I maybe the nuclear navy we kind of do call it
[00:41:36] Rickover's navy. But there's an element of like it's obviously both things. It's bigger than the person, but actually the starting conditions require the founder figure. >> So, tell me about where we are in the state of readiness. You know, we highlighted some of the statistics, but if you guys were to think about what we need to accomplish, the infrastructure we need to stand up to have production lines that can be turned on to support
[00:41:59] munitions capacity for conflict in, you know, pick your region. Let's say more than one region around the world, and the US needs to sustain those conflicts to defend the United States. How far are we from being ready based on what's going on in the investments that are being made today across the sector? I think the the way I think about it is if you thought about this as a spear, the tip of the spear is incredibly sharp. The shaft of the spear
[00:42:24] needs a lot of work here. The you know, the Department of Defense is such a big organization. It it it's structurally supply and demand is not integrated. You know, the the demand side is the real world events that happen at the combatant commands. The the supply side are what the services and the industrial base built. The man train and equipment how you're actually producing that material. And the ability to drive consensus, which is really the
[00:42:47] beating heart of any private sector company of like how do supply and demand come together what's our view of it is is kind of managed with with great difficulty in the Pentagon. And your ability your agility to respond to scenarios is is weak. That's that's where we can have a lot more precision because if you can start changing your mind and saying actually I thought I needed X barracudas but now I need Y barracudas and Z
[00:43:10] furies. How quickly does that take to percolate through the supply base? You know, instead we get locked into these like hey we've made a decision. The decision really can't be revisited. And then you start over time the entropy is like hey I need to I have an I have an unexpected bill. Let's just take a little bit of money away from these programs and everything starts getting down to minimum rate production which is
[00:43:30] this idea of what can I produce just keep the line open which is not deterrent. That's how we frog boiled our way here. And that this is where my my idea of like you got to tie this into consumption. Like everything you're building particularly on the munition side needs to be consumable such that you know you're going to replenish it such that the primes and the neo primes all have the demand signal they need to
[00:43:49] keep going and have a reason to produce them cheaper in order to make more money. My most contrarian idea is like the the the cynical view that like you have the military industrial complex and they're just in it to make money. Well, it's it's kind of a crappy business. Like you know, these companies trade at like less than two times revenue. The problem is it's not profitable enough actually. But Trey, Shawn said in the
[00:44:07] past, we have 8 days of munitions on hand for a major conflict with China versus 800 days needed. How far away do you think we are to having the supply chain built and the production capacity built to meet that objective? Well, I mean, one of the other things Shawn just said in this conversation is that there's a high-low mix question as well. Like, there are exquisite systems that are like the multi-million dollar
[00:44:29] interceptor missiles, and then you have, you know, dumb munitions, things like bombs that are being dropped and things like that. But, it's not the same across that entire stack. You know, there are some some munitions that are woefully under supplied, and we have very low readiness on, and there are others where I actually feel pretty good. From an Anduril perspective, you know, we're looking at ramping as fast as we
[00:44:49] can. We just opened our arsenal yesterday to start producing furies. And, you know, looking out over the next 18 months, we're not taking our our foot off the gas, and yet there's still a run rate capacity that we're running into as we ramp. Like, you it just takes time to get all these lines stood up. So, you know, if we were to start today with unlimited cash, I think over the next 18 months as a country, we could
[00:45:15] get to the point where we were on track for having a sustainable industrial base. But, we're not going to do that. We're going to trickle it out over time, and and I think that unless there's real political leadership that steps up to drive this forward, we will likely be in a similar situation for a long time. And so, I think we really need to to take advantage of this specific moment where there's clearly urgency that is
[00:45:40] understood by by leadership across the administration. How much of the spear is autonomous systems? Is everything going autonomous? Is it just drones, or is there on the ground autonomous? >> Right now. Well, I I would actually argue that like the wars >> you were to build for the 18-month out Yeah, I mean, the wars of today are fought with the the weapons of yesterday. That's like just a fundamental truth. And some of our
[00:46:03] weapons of yesterday are awesome. Like B-2s are incredible. Uh the bombs that we dropped last summer in Iran, incredible. Like these are very high-tech exquisite systems. Patriot missiles, incredible. They're very performant. Uh they hit their targets almost every time. I mean, these are great systems. The problem is is that they're incredibly expensive and we can't resupply. Like we're just we're way behind the eight ball on that. And
[00:46:28] so, uh you know, thinking about the wars of the future, it means that we need to start building these attritable mass systems today so that they're in inventory to be used for those complex. There are a number of Anduril systems that are at a readiness level at a level of deployment that they're active and being used in in combat today, but it's still a very small percentage of of the way that the wars are being waged. Um
[00:46:51] over, you know, the next 5 to 10 years, that high-low mix is going to have to shift massively. I mean, this is just like clearly evident in Ukraine. It's clearly evident in Iran. Uh and I think the department is making steps to ensuring that they have a better divide of low-cost attritable systems and those high-cost exquisite systems. Um but, uh you know, as I said, it's going to take political leadership to get there. Uh
[00:47:17] but we we have the ability to do it. The reason I ask is I want to talk a little bit about the ethics of technology to war, the Anthropic run-in with the Department of War recently. And I think you guys have both talked publicly about this. But Anthropic refused to let its Claude model be used in Maven without human oversight constraints. This is what's been reported, what Amiel Michael has said. And the Pentagon labeled them a
[00:47:41] supply chain risk. Both AI and generally autonomous systems beg the question, what role should humans have and who should have the right to play that role of hitting the kill switch? What's your view on the role of the technology vendor to the Department of War and where you guys draw your line on what your responsibilities are with respect to ethics. Well, my my view on my responsibility to ethics is a slightly different question
[00:48:08] than my belief in democracy, which is a different thing. Um so maybe starting on on the democracy point, um I believe that the people of America have elected representatives to make really hard decisions about how we engage in combat. Full stop. Um fully autonomous weapons are not new. We've had autonomous systems in operation like Sea Whiz, which is deployed on uh naval vessels, that shoots down aerial threats fully
[00:48:34] autonomously. You don't have time to make decisions about, you know, incoming missiles or threats to your ship. You just have to shoot it down. So that's what Sea Whiz does. Now, Sea Whiz has accountability in the system. There's a person on that boat that is responsible for whatever actions that weapon system takes. And I believe that this is the future of autonomous systems. Is that just like any other system, whether it's
[00:48:56] a soldier carrying a gun, they are accountable for what happens with that gun, or uh you know, the captain of the naval vessel, they are responsible for what happens with that Sea Whiz. All of your autonomous systems are going to have accountability baked in. Now, ethically, how do I think about this? You know, I believe that, you know, what Shawn was saying about the first offset, the second offset, and the third offset,
[00:49:17] um is, you know, we have we as a society we went from like rocks and sticks to, you know, knives to guns to bombs and then in, you know, World War we kind of plateaued with nuclear weapons. And we all looked around at each other and we said, "Wow, that's pretty crazy. I don't think we want to make more and more powerful nuclear weapons forever." And so actually our engagement in combat has come back down the chain. Uh we're you
[00:49:45] know, precision guided weapons. We're shooting non-explosive missiles into windows of apartment buildings, avoiding casualties, unintended casualties. And I think that's really the goal. And if you look at AI as the command center for making better decisions with better precision, with better discrimination, with less less civilian casualties, this is good. It's actually ethically far improved from just dropping dumb bombs on areas of
[00:50:14] cities to eliminate military facilities. So, I don't think abstention from participating in the building of technology for national security is a morally neutral decision. You are making a moral decision when you decide to abstain. And I am making a moral decision as a private citizen building a company in this space that I believe that this is ethically just. And I trust in our democracy to deploy those tools
[00:50:36] with the interest of the American people at heart. There's a lot that's said about Palantir enabling a surveillance state. We had the All In Summit in September. Alex Karp, your CEO, spoke. And there was a protest group outside protesting Palantir powering a surveillance state. I just want to give you a chance to respond to that. Number one. And number two, if you saw that Palantir's tools were being used in an
[00:50:59] illegal way, where's the responsibility for Palantir as a technology vendor in addressing those concerns? It's almost hard to respond to because it's very unclear what surveillance people think we're doing. You know, there's just there's like a broad almost maybe an outgrowth of Terminator fear around technology. >> to get into that cultural question next. I think it's like very important to understand. >> We don't collect data. We don't have any
[00:51:20] data. It'd be like It'd be like accusing Excel of being a surveillance tool, right? It's like this is a way of bringing your your own data that you have lawful authorities to collect together to make decisions. Sounds a lot like Excel. But it's, you know, because we are unabashedly patriotic and serve the US military, I think people have a kind of colored view of these things. I would argue that it's actually Excel with cell by cell
[00:51:45] >> With much more security. With auditability. You know, it'd be as Karp says it it's the most insane platform in the world to try to do something illegal in because you are going to be caught. You know, like that was part of the idea of how do you enhance privacy and security? How do you build more civil liberties protections in it? How do you have a normative view that enables a democracy say these are laws and rules,
[00:52:03] the system will enforce it. We're not just relying on people happening to do the correct thing. Uh so that's one piece of it. The other piece of it to come back to this broader point is the the need for epistemic humility. Like one of the Um to the point of we have elected officials, um they are accountable for these policy decisions. I think at the limit it's actually kind of indefensible to have a perspective other than lawful use
[00:52:27] because if you are salami slicing the policy, that's actually tyranny by tech bro. You know, a small number of people are constraining the maneuver space of a democracy with no accountability to the populace. So I I I think that's a pretty challenging perspective to be in. And we've been in this perspective where if you go back to how did the Soviets get the nuclear bomb? You know, there's really there's two sources of treason.