[00:13:06] that. We're actually working with Palantir, uh the foundry platform, on some of these programs as well. And uh the idea behind this is that you want it to be as modular as possible. If we build out the factory campus and we said, "We're just going to build theories here or we're just going to build road runners here or just going to build barracudas here." That provides a tremendous limitation in a in the moment
[00:13:26] of a conflict to be able to be responsive to the demand for specific things that are relevant to that conflict. And so we're kind of thinking about this more like contract manufacturers think about building assembly capacity where they say, "Yep, we make, you know, this VR headset for Facebook. We make this VR headset for Samsung. We make this VR headset for Apple. We build a skill set around building optic systems,
[00:13:52] but we're going to build a bunch of them. And we're going to we're going to be much more effective at doing that by hitting the network of scale, you know, get lower costs on all the individual parts. You're going to build out a supply chain to to work through that. That's roughly what we're doing in this case is we're saying like a contract manufacturer, we want to be able to pivot on a dime into ramping up
[00:14:10] production of Roadrunners if we need Roadrunners or ramping up production of Barracudas if we need Barracudas. The counter example to this, of course, is what we saw in the early days of Ukraine where what they really wanted was more Stingers and Javelins. The problem is is that we once we burned through our inventory in the warehouse of the Stingers and Javelins, the assembly line to build Stingers and Javelins didn't exist.
[00:14:32] All the people that worked on those assembly lines were retired. And so the primes were literally calling people out of retirement to come back and teach them how to build Stingers and Javelins again. And so these are problems that we're trying to avoid by the design of the factory as a as an initial concept. >> Who funds it? So is there a government contract that supports the production of these facilities? And are multiple
[00:14:54] companies going to be able to afford to to stand these up to make these investments or is this just going to end up being an Anduril because you've got most of the capital and you guys are going to roll these facilities out? And how do we make this kind of a national interest? Well, our business model is definitely very different from the primes who are basically responding to things as requirements directly from
[00:15:12] their customer. So they're not really investing a whole lot forward of the capability. Anduril, on the other hand, we're doing all of this as private R&D investment and then we're selling the outcome, the output of that as a product. So, this is a fundamentally a different business model. Um, but I I do think that there's a tremendous amount of capital that's required to pull this off uh as a new entrant to the space. Um, I don't think
[00:15:35] that the market is going to support a hundred new primes or something like that. Uh, I'm hopeful that it's not just Anduril. I think it would be healthy if there was more competition in the space. Um, but, you know, being able to raise that amount of capital, hire the people that you need to actually pull it off. Uh, this is not It's not like building a a a normal tech company. It's not just the development of a product. It's, you
[00:15:57] know, there's a lot that goes into this. Tracepoint might seem kind of obvious or simple, particularly to an audience that's largely coming from tech or Silicon Valley, but that's not how defense works. People don't build products. People build to a spec that the government says, "This is what I want to buy." And then you kind of say, "Yes." You know, you have to think about defense as a monopsony, where there's a
[00:16:15] single buyer for the thing. And that concentrates an enormous amount of power in the buyer, whether they're right or wrong. And if you look at the history of defense innovation, typically the monopsony's wrong. You know, it was Churchill as the head of the Royal Navy who built the tank because the British Army was not smart enough to realize that in the next battle having horses was not going to work. So, every one of
[00:16:34] these innovations is kind of an act of heresy. There There's a founder-like figure who is so committed pathologically to a different heretical concept, they see it through and only in combat or only when it meets the moment is it actually validated. Now, a grave threat like the Soviet Union is a sort of forcing function that allow allows you to innovate. When we were building ICBMs, we had eight competing programs.
[00:16:56] Today in peacetime, that would be viewed facilely as wasteful. Why should you have eight competing things? Why can't you just pick the right one and put, you know, spend less or put all your wood behind one arrow. And of course, that kind of turns its back on our fundamental belief in America on the free market, that there's a competition of ideas, there's fundamental uncertainty, there's quality like variance in the quality of the
[00:17:16] execution, and that you need this competition. And it's not just principally competition amongst the primes or new entrants, it's also competition inside of government. And there were originally, I think or at one point, 51 major defense contractors. And just for the audience to understand, they reduced down to roughly five or six primes. That's That's the term prime. It's one of these prime contractors and then they make sub contract out to other
[00:17:40] companies to develop componentry parts. My understanding in Anduril was to do exactly this, build a product, show up with something that's cheaper, better, faster, and actually competes on the merits rather than be caught in this kind of prime landscape. And that worked clearly. But over time, there seems to be a lot of capital concentrating into the new primes. You guys, you guys, SpaceX, OpenAI, maybe one or two others.
[00:18:06] Is the landscape going to emerge that it We're going to just look like the same old way of operating where we have a handful of primes that all have these trusted relationships with the government agencies? Or how do we kind of create that competitive environment to continue to drive innovation and make things affordable for the US government and the taxpayer going forward? Well, just like uh and and I interview Trey in
[00:18:27] my new book on this, like just like venture, there's going to be a power law here. You know, so so one of the grave mistakes we've made as we think about innovation, which has resulted in essentially innovation theater, is this idea that you're going to just peanut butter spread around the capital you have for innovation. That, you know, every company's going to get roughly the same amount. It's not enough to hit
[00:18:45] scale. It doesn't reflect actually the relative performance differences cuz there's an authentic power law curve like any venture capitalist would would realize that, you know, your your biggest winners are going to return your whole fund. There's There's something authentic here as well, which is like, yeah, you may have 10 bets, but you at some point you're going to have to get smart about concentrating down on the
[00:19:01] things that are actually working. Yeah, I mean, this is a a kind of a great point about any category. It's like, if you're a space tech investor and you didn't invest in SpaceX, you probably lost money. If you're a crypto infrastructure investor and you didn't invest in Coinbase, probably lost money. If you're a social media investor and you didn't invest in Facebook, you probably lost money. And yet, for some
[00:19:19] reason, capital allocators have a very short memory. They don't have the ability to go back to the the prior boom cycle and say, "Oh, wait. I remember what happened that last time. We had to concentrate capital down to the winner." And I think that this is this isn't any different. >> was the motivator then for change in the construction of the landscape of defense contracting? Was it software that takes us from the old primes to the new
[00:19:43] primes? Is that really what kind of triggered this cascade evolution? So, in '93, having won the Cold War in '91, or I think more accurately, the Soviets lost the Cold War. You know, by '93, we expected as a nation a kind of peace dividend. We don't have an adversary now, we should be able to spend less on defense. And the department had this famous dinner where they brought 15 of the 51 primes together and said, "This
[00:20:08] is going to happen. The budget's going to get slashed. We're not going to save you guys. You have our permission to consolidate. Some of you are going to go out of business. Some of you should try to make a commercial business, which didn't really work." And that's what led down to five. It was actually there was going to be we were going to go from five to four in '99, the Justice Department put their foot down and said,
[00:20:24] "We're not going to let Lockheed and Northrop consolidate." Right. And then today, so the change over, what gave you guys the window, what gave you guys the window to build the business that you built? I mean, what did you see early on 20 years ago and continued forward in the hardware side that made you say, "This is This is the moment." Is it software that enabled this? Well, I'm going to throw you under the bus a
[00:20:45] little bit on this. It was not obvious in the beginning that this is going to work. I can't tell you how many meetings even we had together where we walk out and be like, "This is not going to work. This is very bad." We were not welcome with open arms. Right. You know, Early days at Palantir. Yeah. Early days, mid days, maybe even late days. Yeah, yeah. know, famously we had to sue our customer just for the right to compete. Uh that that's the
[00:21:11] strength of the monopsony, right? And and really I'd say our our entire business was validated from the field backwards, right? It was in DC that we the doors were closed to us. No one wanted to interact with us. The like the where the monopsony is strongest. At the margin in the field where people are saying like, "Well, I'm on this deployment. I'm on this rotation, and I I there is more free market system. Like
[00:21:30] what I'm being given doesn't work. I'd like to come home. How do I like bend the rules, figure out how to get the software I need." That allowed us to empirically show, you know, create facts on the ground that this stuff worked. It was a long road to hoe. I think this is part of why it took 20 years to kind of get to this sort of point here. And yeah, I I think that a lot of those lessons that were learned were not only
[00:21:49] like educational for Anduril, but it also created a precedence that already existed by the time that we showed up where we didn't have to go through all of those same growing pains. So, you know, what took Palantir I guess probably about 5 years to get to 10 million annually in revenue, we did that in 22 months. But, I don't think that was a credit to Anduril. I think it was mostly a credit to me, Matt, and Brian
[00:22:10] lived the 5 years of Palantir. 5 years plus 22 months. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so, we kind of had a bit of a cheat code, but yeah, I don't think it's like culturally shifted to the point where it's like actually just easy to do this now. It's not like the government has fixed all of their problems. I think it's just that there's enough people out there who have seen it that understand how to make it work. Um that you can
[00:22:31] work within the system rather than as Sham said trying to constantly fight from the outside in. Was there a view at that time in these years building Palantir where you saw an opportunity in hardware? Is that kind of the motivation for Anduril? That we've got software, but there's more to do and hardware could be reinvented and we could build systems. I mean, help us understand the connection. Yeah, in the very early days
[00:22:51] actually, I came by to pitch Sham uh it before we officially started the company. Uh and I think part of that pitch was we said, uh "We know how hard software is. We don't want to do that again. We believe hardware would be less hard. Uh And I think we ended up being right from like a getting going perspective. But yeah, it's just you know, the government doesn't know how to think about the value that's created by
[00:23:14] software. Maybe you feel like they're a little bit better now, but it was really hard in the early days of Palantir to convince them to think about it as anything other than lines of code, for example, or some like metrics that anyone that works in tech knows doesn't matter. But for hardware, they know there's a bill of materials. The In fact, the government made stuff for a long time. During the Cold War, there
[00:23:33] were literally ammunition factories that were owned and operated by the United States government. So they can kind of go through a spreadsheet and say, "Okay, I know how much it costs for you to build this. I know how much margin I'm comfortable paying you." And it's a much easier, you know, crossing over the Rubicon. With software, it never felt like that. Yeah, it's still very hard. I mean, people want to pay for software in government
[00:23:56] on a cost-plus basis, which doesn't make any sense if you think about it the R&D that you put into software. Like the marginal price you're paying is a small fraction of the R&D we're amortizing across commercial and government customers. And I think it may maybe Trey it's it's worth telling the story of how when you got to Founders Fund, you were looking for defense companies to invest in and hitting so many dry holes is is part of
[00:24:16] what led to the idea. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I have no I had maybe still don't have any interest in venture capital. And so when Peter asked me to come over to Founders Fund, the only thing I knew to do was just to look at the category of things I felt like I understood pretty well, which was GovTech. And so I incidentally, you can look up who bids on federal contracts. And so I pulled that list and then at the time I was
[00:24:39] using Crunchbase. And then I just started outbounding to companies that were bidding on federal contracts. And I met with hundreds of companies in the first three years that I was at Founders Fund. We may ended up making one investment in KDM, which was renamed Expanse and acquired by Palantir Networks. But otherwise, that was it. There was nothing else. And even like looking in retrospect, like we didn't miss anything. There was just nothing
[00:25:02] worth investing in. It turns out no one was building in this category. Um, and so I I went back to the Founders Fund investment team and said, "Man, I feel like someone should be building a next-gen prime that builds hardware, but it's software-defined and hardware-enabled rather than being hardware-defined and software-enabled." Um, and uh to my surprise, the team was like, "Yeah, sounds like you're probably
[00:25:22] the guy that would know that that's the gap. And I don't know, maybe you should start a company." And I'm like, "Oh, no, you you guys hired me to work on the investment team at Founders Fund." They're like, "Yeah, that's fine. You can you can do that, too. It's all good." So, yeah, it was kind of an accidental founding in many ways. The capital requirements for hardware business are notably higher if you didn't have the success you had building
[00:25:44] the manufacturing facility you're building. And I'm assuming all the R&D cycles are longer and require more capital to get to a point of product. Does it make sense for venture capital to be the funder of the next gen of hardware defense tech companies? How does the economics and the capital markets I'll I'll give a take here and then you So, I think um if you back up a little bit, if you look at Fairchild, if
[00:26:06] you look at integrated circuits in 1968, 96% of all integrated circuits sold were sold to the Apollo program. There was effectively a monopoly. There was one buyer for this thing. But Bob Noyce, who was at Fairchild at the time and co-inventor of the transistor, he was so maniacally committed to a future that semiconductors, integrated circuits would be in everything that he never let more than 4% of his R&D be paid for by
[00:26:29] the government. He was going to be like, "Why should I have some PM tell me what my R&D road map? I invented the thing." So, he kept executing that. And that's he So, he chased Moore's law mercilessly. And that meant in the '80s, when the government needed precision-guided munitions for Assault Breaker to compete against the Soviets, we had the price-performance we needed. Uh so, this idea that, you know, cuz
[00:26:48] when you get stuck inside the government loop of what they want, you never hit the price-performance. >> By the way, there's a good modern analogy, which is Jensen and Nvidia, right? '93 graphics chips, sold them as an OE almost like an OEM type solution until here we are. The The one that speaks to my heart as a child who grew up in the shadow of the Space Coast is shuttle. You know, shuttle is is a It's beautiful, but it's $50,000 a kilogram
[00:27:10] to get to orbit. Starship heavy reuse will be under 20 bucks a kilogram. You know, and there's no way that you will achieve that vision if you're in a cost-plus world. Because every day you're actually deleting your costs, which means you'd be deleting your profit. Instead of deleting your costs, turning that into margin that you can provide a better price performance on and keep riding that curve down. Right.