[00:25:22] the guy that would know that that's the gap. And I don't know, maybe you should start a company." And I'm like, "Oh, no, you you guys hired me to work on the investment team at Founders Fund." They're like, "Yeah, that's fine. You can you can do that, too. It's all good." So, yeah, it was kind of an accidental founding in many ways. The capital requirements for hardware business are notably higher if you didn't have the success you had building
[00:25:44] the manufacturing facility you're building. And I'm assuming all the R&D cycles are longer and require more capital to get to a point of product. Does it make sense for venture capital to be the funder of the next gen of hardware defense tech companies? How does the economics and the capital markets I'll I'll give a take here and then you So, I think um if you back up a little bit, if you look at Fairchild, if
[00:26:06] you look at integrated circuits in 1968, 96% of all integrated circuits sold were sold to the Apollo program. There was effectively a monopoly. There was one buyer for this thing. But Bob Noyce, who was at Fairchild at the time and co-inventor of the transistor, he was so maniacally committed to a future that semiconductors, integrated circuits would be in everything that he never let more than 4% of his R&D be paid for by
[00:26:29] the government. He was going to be like, "Why should I have some PM tell me what my R&D road map? I invented the thing." So, he kept executing that. And that's he So, he chased Moore's law mercilessly. And that meant in the '80s, when the government needed precision-guided munitions for Assault Breaker to compete against the Soviets, we had the price-performance we needed. Uh so, this idea that, you know, cuz
[00:26:48] when you get stuck inside the government loop of what they want, you never hit the price-performance. >> By the way, there's a good modern analogy, which is Jensen and Nvidia, right? '93 graphics chips, sold them as an OE almost like an OEM type solution until here we are. The The one that speaks to my heart as a child who grew up in the shadow of the Space Coast is shuttle. You know, shuttle is is a It's beautiful, but it's $50,000 a kilogram
[00:27:10] to get to orbit. Starship heavy reuse will be under 20 bucks a kilogram. You know, and there's no way that you will achieve that vision if you're in a cost-plus world. Because every day you're actually deleting your costs, which means you'd be deleting your profit. Instead of deleting your costs, turning that into margin that you can provide a better price performance on and keep riding that curve down. Right.
[00:27:29] Although, to be fair, SpaceX sued their customer in the Air Force on the basis of the exact same federal procurement law that Palantir did. And so, you know, even with that massive costs costing down, they were in the same position as Palantir was in the early days. Let's go back to the venture capital. At this conference that we're at, there's dozens of VCs now. This has clearly become a hot space as defined by
[00:27:54] your successes. What's going to happen? So, these VCs are plowing money into hundreds of defense tech companies from drones to satellites to weapon systems to software tools. How does this going to play out over the next couple of years as a venture investor with your knowledge about Anduril? I remember when I first got my offer letter from from Palantir. There we had this kind of high-low mix of salary versus equity compensation and
[00:28:20] it gave three examples of how much your equity at your was on your offer will be worth at different valuations. It was I think it was 1, 5, and 10 maybe or 1, 5, and 20, something like that. And I remember talking to people around the company, they're like, "20? That's ridiculous. We're never going to be worth $20 billion. And uh you know, I feel like now it's like people are going out and they're like, "Our seed round will be priced at $20
[00:28:44] billion." So, I think there's a been a big shift in just like the way that people think about these things. Um, some of that is good, some of it's bad. I think on the good side there, you know, they're able to look at companies like Palantir, like SpaceX, like Anduril and say there is actually a path to success. This isn't like an impossible market to innovate in. But at the same time, um, you know, there's there's a real tension around
[00:29:07] amount of capital raised and the valuations that are being applied to these rounds that add a tremendous amount of risk to the company that doesn't have to exist. You know, there's this favorite there's this famous scene from HBO's Silicon Valley where a CEO gets fired, um, for uh, kind of underperformance on the plan that they had presented. Um, and uh, Richard Hendricks, the main character, says, "You know, you could have raised less at
[00:29:30] a lower price." And he said, "What do you mean? Haha. No one ever told me I could raise less at a lower price." And I think that's ultimately what my advice to these companies is is like, "Look, your product might be awesome. Seems like you're building a good team. I like the vision for what you're doing and the mission, but you can also raise less at a lower price. And I think that avoids, you know, playing chicken ultimately
[00:29:52] with trying to hit numbers that frankly don't even make sense." Um, one of the things that we've been focused on at Anduril that I think maps back to our experience at Palantir, actually, is climbing down the multiples tree uh, with every round. We never want to go and raise the next round at a higher revenue multiple than the prior round. Um, and even the Series A that you mentioned before uh, is is down pretty significantly from the Series G.
[00:30:18] And we're not doing that because investors wouldn't be willing to pay higher multiples. We're doing that because I believe the discipline is really, really important, especially heading into a a, you know, medium-term IPO. Emil Michael talked about the $200 billion of capital he wants to deploy. It's been reported he's hiring bankers to help him deploy it. To counter your point, if there's a lot of capital flowing from the monopsony, if there's
[00:30:40] a, you know, a big market that's growing aggressively, you've got a $200 billion TAM to go after now. Shouldn't that justify the venture capital coming in, maybe even justify going at a higher price? Is this Department of War investment activity really going to kind of change the landscape and increase more venture capital flow? I think it's it's going to help out tremendously. First of all, I love the nickname that
[00:30:59] this team has, which is Deal Team Six. So, uh you know, I'd be honored to be part of that team. Uh but I I think if even if you look back at the titanium supply chain in the '50s, '60s, it was it was bootstrapped by the Air Force in a similar way where they strategically injected capital down the supply chain to enable the aerospace industry to be created. So, I think there's a tremendous opportunity with the Office
[00:31:17] of Strategic Capital to think about where are the structural bottlenecks in the production. You can have a lot of drone companies, and they're all going to bottleneck on brushless motors. There's going to be certain key parts of the supply chain that we don't have enough capacity to produce here in the US, and they're going to need a bolus of investment. And just like integrated circuits, the first customer is going to be less economical
[00:31:36] than the end customer. So, I think that's one part. Then I the other story that I love is where we really screwed this up. The drone is an American birthright. Abe Karem and the Predator, we we built it at General Atomics. But of course, then the government got in the way. The government said, "Hey, a drone is a flying missile. This thing needs to be ITAR controlled." Also, the FAA got in the way and said, "No beyond
[00:31:54] line of sight operations." Right? So, you basically killed the domestic drone market. There's a counterfactual world where General Atomics had a consumer subsidiary called DJI, and the consumer drone market was entirely owned by the US, and it provided for economic prosperity for America, and wrote us down the price production curve that we could be using these things in innovation for national security as well.
[00:32:18] What's the next market where you're worried that's going to happen? I have a lot of markets. So, I mean, we're we're we're talking a lot about um weapons of war here. I'm worried about things that go beyond weapons of war that affect our will to fight. Uh pharmaceuticals is one that's close to my heart. My father was a pharmacist, and one of the things he always wanted me to work on was bringing pharmaceutical production back home. 80%
[00:32:36] of APIs for generic drugs are produced by China. What do you think the American people are going to think when they have to choose between defending the free world, defending American sovereignty, and their 5-year-old dying of an ear infection that we would have thought of as trivially curable? So, I think there are these these things where we've just imbibed the globalist vision that hey, we'll do the innovation, they'll do the
[00:32:56] production without realizing that innovation is a consequence of productivity. Probably to put it in terms that the that the tech community would really understand is like what motivated Google to do the research in 2017 behind the paper attention is all you need. A desire for a 3% incremental improvement in Google Translate. You cannot think of something more banal leading to something more revolutionary. And we've seeded all of those
[00:33:19] opportunities to realize and harness that innovation. Now, if you we stick with pharmaceuticals, there's a reason 50% of all clinical trials new clinical trials are happening in China and not in the US. Do you have a view on a technology or product that's developed in the US that we're at risk of getting regulated out and we're or we kind of going in the right direction at this moment? I would say like semiconductors is actually
[00:33:39] really interesting one back to your your point about Fairchild is that you know, we were the the home of the semiconductor industry for many, many years. And you know, once TSMC got got you know, ahead of steam in Taiwan, they kind of ran away with it. And we didn't rather than investing in a domestic competitor, there are all sorts of reasons for this that we could spend hours talking about, we basically just
[00:34:02] allowed that to happen somewhere else. And now we're in a position where almost no amount of money is going to fix this problem for us. Certainly on a timeline of relevance as it pertains to the risk that Taiwan has in 2027. So, I would say that's like another really big one. Getting back to defense, how does the hardware and software fit together in this you know, kind of emerging war technology landscape? You guys are building
[00:34:26] software, you're building hardware, like help us understand a little bit about what the systems of war look like in the decades ahead. Well, I I think the the starting premise would be where does it give us an advantage? And you know, we had the first offset which was nuclear weapons, the second offset precision guided munitions and stealth. Really the the third offset is decision advantage. How can we out-think and out-execute the
[00:34:45] adversary? That's where these things fit together. That's like the thesis of even having them to begin with. And I think the reality is that there's kind of a messy overlap of these things. Like all innovation is messy and chaotic and maybe the department suffers at times because it tries to have a a framework-based approach. Like we're going to have MOSA, modular open standards architecture, something like that. You know, it's like we're going to
[00:35:07] avoid all of the pain and messiness by having some sort of process. But in reality, the process always destroys all of the innovation. And so there there's obviously a very tight thesis where these things need to coexist and build off one one another. They need to be interoperable. But you have to earn that. You have to earn that opinion in the exercises and the test and the evaluation in combat would be my my
[00:35:29] humble suggestion. Do you think that outside of what Anduril's building, there's actions that this administration should be taking or that the private market should be taking to solve this hardware manufacturing and capacity gap that we have right now? My view is they're actually taking a lot of actions. Not all of them have come to see the day of light here, but you know, even something as simple as reimagining munitions and
[00:35:54] drones as consumables. They're not things that you build and then stock on a shelf. They're things that you at the time of ordering them, you already have an exercise test plan where you plan to expend them, which means that you're going to have to replenish them, which means there's a demand signal to industry to keep going and and a buying cycle that means that you can buy the next generation rather than having the
[00:36:12] old generation. And I think this department sees that in a very clear-eyed way and is doing the yeoman's work of like stitching that through through all the services, all the portfolio acquisition executives. To the point of not believing in process, they've moved from a world where you have a very rigid, "Hey, I said I was going to buy X of Y and I can't change my mind." to a world where there's more autonomy and authority for the people
[00:36:34] who are buying things to say, "I told you I was going to buy something that accomplished this goal. I can change my mind about how I'm going to accomplish this goal." Which, you know, can you imagine trying to run any private sector business without that degree of autonomy and and flexibility in your decision-making? To echo Sham's point about what the administration is doing, there are a bunch of swings that they're
[00:36:52] taking. It wasn't that long ago that uh in the Obama administration there was kind of the Solyndra failure where they invested in this solar panel company and ended up being a bad investment for the US taxpayer. Um but now the Office of Strategic Capital is taking a really hard look at critical minerals. They're looking at, you know, refining of of minerals and uh they're engaging directly with the private sector to come
[00:37:14] alongside them in doing deals to get off-take agreements on these things. So, uh I think there is some really clever thinking going on. Um and then in addition to that, I think the procurement process is sort of up for revision constantly. Um and Ash Carter started pulling a lot of these threads during the Obama administration. That was the third offset initiative. Um but, you know, we're in a in a world today
[00:37:36] where there's kind of a renewed vigor around being asked, private industry being asked, "What do you need? Like, tell us what you need to be changed about the way that we do business in order to streamline this and make it go faster." So, I I I think there's a lot of positive momentum. Do you guys think these changes have been institutionalized or are they political party dependent? If the Republicans lose the midterms
[00:37:58] and there's a Democrat president in 2028, do you think that there's a reversion to the old way of operating that's going to have some political influence and change things or do you think we've really changed how things are are running in the government here? >> I don't think it's political, but I think it's people. So, you can go back to, again, Ash Carter, Democratic administration, highly focused on fixing
[00:38:18] these problems. The current Trump administration, highly focused on fixing these problems. And that you know, there are a lot of people that that were in the middle of that that didn't prioritize this. It wasn't you know, it didn't rise to the top of the stack. And so I think we always think of like the bureaucracy as being a political infrastructure or an institution or you know, a bureaucracy. I actually just think at the end of the
[00:38:42] day it's about leadership. It's just do we have the right people that understand the set of the problems that we're we're facing. I couldn't agree more. I mean I call them heretics and heroes. Like you you know, that the entropy of the bureaucracy is always towards some sort of sclerosis. It doesn't it's not a political statement. It's just is what bureaucracy does. When David Packard, who's probably the last major technology
[00:39:01] co-founder who served in the Department of Defense, when he came up with the 5000 series on acquisition, which today we view as just sclerotic BS that's that's tied us down. Well, he his document was seven pages long. In the in the years between when he wrote that and now it's 2000 pages. So did he really screw us or did just the entropy take hold and there was no strong leadership in between to go do the bushwhacking and
[00:39:23] mow the lawn and and and make the right decisions. Now, you know, this this administration's blown up JCS, which is kind of one of these insane bureaucratic processes. Like can you just take a forget a scalpel, take a machete and start clearing the jungle and re-earn some of these lessons as you go through it. If you look at Kelly Johnson, who was the founder of Skunk Works, he built 41 airframes in his career including the