[00:50:36] with the interest of the American people at heart. There's a lot that's said about Palantir enabling a surveillance state. We had the All In Summit in September. Alex Karp, your CEO, spoke. And there was a protest group outside protesting Palantir powering a surveillance state. I just want to give you a chance to respond to that. Number one. And number two, if you saw that Palantir's tools were being used in an
[00:50:59] illegal way, where's the responsibility for Palantir as a technology vendor in addressing those concerns? It's almost hard to respond to because it's very unclear what surveillance people think we're doing. You know, there's just there's like a broad almost maybe an outgrowth of Terminator fear around technology. >> to get into that cultural question next. I think it's like very important to understand. >> We don't collect data. We don't have any
[00:51:20] data. It'd be like It'd be like accusing Excel of being a surveillance tool, right? It's like this is a way of bringing your your own data that you have lawful authorities to collect together to make decisions. Sounds a lot like Excel. But it's, you know, because we are unabashedly patriotic and serve the US military, I think people have a kind of colored view of these things. I would argue that it's actually Excel with cell by cell
[00:51:45] >> With much more security. With auditability. You know, it'd be as Karp says it it's the most insane platform in the world to try to do something illegal in because you are going to be caught. You know, like that was part of the idea of how do you enhance privacy and security? How do you build more civil liberties protections in it? How do you have a normative view that enables a democracy say these are laws and rules,
[00:52:03] the system will enforce it. We're not just relying on people happening to do the correct thing. Uh so that's one piece of it. The other piece of it to come back to this broader point is the the need for epistemic humility. Like one of the Um to the point of we have elected officials, um they are accountable for these policy decisions. I think at the limit it's actually kind of indefensible to have a perspective other than lawful use
[00:52:27] because if you are salami slicing the policy, that's actually tyranny by tech bro. You know, a small number of people are constraining the maneuver space of a democracy with no accountability to the populace. So I I I think that's a pretty challenging perspective to be in. And we've been in this perspective where if you go back to how did the Soviets get the nuclear bomb? You know, there's really there's two sources of treason.
[00:52:48] One was committed communist like Klaus Fuchs who was who's always a spy, but the other were people like Theodore Hall. He was one of the youngest scientists in the Manhattan Project at 18 years old. His brother Edward Hall built the Minuteman missile. His brother was, you know, kind of a heritage and hero in my terms. But Theodore said, you know, I'm one of the best physicists in the world. I'm probably also one of the
[00:53:07] best geopolitical strategists in the world. And I think the only way to have world peace is if two countries have the bomb. So in 1944 Theodore Hall walked into the Soviet trade mission in New York and gave them critical secrets to the bomb. Now Theodore thought he was going to deliver world peace. Instead, every death from communism since 1949 is actually on his hands. And there's no accountability for that.
[00:53:28] Yeah, I think it one of the other things that comes up in these these conversations about powering the surveillance state is this belief that we have policies, but we don't actually want our civil servants to have the best technology to enforce those policies. And it's almost like a a lack of belief in the institution of democracy. It's like, you know, traffic cameras, for example. It's like, man, I'm sort of
[00:53:50] libertarian in some ways. I don't love traffic cameras, but if traffic cameras say, "I'm going to send a ticket to every single person that blows through this red light." I don't know, maybe we have to change the policy around red lights if you don't like that. Or >> I've gotten three speeding tickets in San Francisco from autonomous cameras in the last month. >> Well, they did ramp it up significantly, which is incredible that they're
[00:54:08] enforcing laws at all, if we're being I mean, like here's my ticket. And then I'm literally watching the guy while I'm doing 3 miles over the speed limit, you know, take heroin needles out of his arm and put it on the floor next to next to an elementary school. But it's the same thing with like, you know, using using tech for better enforcement of tax law or something like that. Like, do you Is what we're saying by criticizing what
[00:54:32] Palantir is doing, is what we're saying that we don't want our civil servants to have the best tools possible? Because you can have that position. I tend to think that that position is pretty morally bankrupt, but I guess you could have that position. But ultimately, I think that's what it is. >> So, scenario play this for me because there's a public perception, I don't know how far-reaching it is, that there's some tied corruption between
[00:54:51] government officials that use technology that's super advanced, that's hard for people to understand, and the technology vendors. If you saw government agencies using your technology, either of you, in illegal way that you knew broke the law, do you report it? 100%. Yeah, to the IG. There's an entire mechanism there. There is an IG in every agency. >> Right. So, can you just just explain that for a second? The Inspector General
[00:55:13] maybe Yeah. So, every agency has an Inspector General who's an independent organization that you can provide anonymous or non-anonymous complaints to that then have the ability, the statutory ability to do an investigation in unfettered way inside of that organization, whether it's the Department of War or Housing and Urban Development, like literally every single agency. And this mechanism is used. I actually,
[00:55:35] you know, in in it was weaponized against one of my favorite heretics and heroes Colonel Drew Cukor who invented Maven, the founder of Maven, really. But you know, people would file complaints claiming that he was hiding illegal immigrants in his basement, a basement that he doesn't really have. You know, but but all of those things were investigated. Naval Criminal Investigative Services went out to his house and actually looked into
[00:55:55] these things. So, people take this incredibly seriously. Where does the culture come from? The anti-defense tech alignment culture? Is it because of the peace era that we had and folks took for granted national security? I think the first schism was really during Vietnam where people felt like they were lied to about the war. It drove a fundamental schism between academia and defense. And that we've never really healed from that
[00:56:20] schism. And so, there's this this this kind of sense, this distrust that's that's brewed there and kind of escalates your society. The second schism is like the number of people who are prior service or or connected to this community who actually see these people as humans and have a fully informed mental model of how diligent they are, how the work actually gets done. What do these words actually mean? What is the process like? Is is is
[00:56:42] evaporated. So then, their own fears fill how they think it happens. And it seems like maybe it's happening more in a cowboy way. Maybe it's happening in a way without oversight that there is no such thing as doctrine. Like there is kind of a cartoon version of what's actually happening that I think you know, you're unable to reconcile. Yeah, I think if you even look back at what happened with Snowden, you know, what was that? 15 years ago
[00:57:05] now? Something like that. Um you know, that there was almost no discussion about the investigations that went into like was the data collection actually abused? And the answer was like basically not at all. There were like less than 12 documented cases where someone got access to data that they shouldn't have. And it was because of like technology errors, not because of the policies that were implemented. Um and so, you know, we can have
[00:57:28] disagreements about whether or not the intelligence community should have collected the data and stored it. Uh but that was that policy was renewed multiple times by multiple administrations, multiple political parties that had the majority in Congress over decades. And so apparently our elected representatives thought that it was important enough to keep in the system. Um so I think it ends up being this kind
[00:57:52] of weird policy discussion. Uh but the second point that you make I completely agree with about like the the kind of distrust of the institution uh in in creating the stories for themselves. Uh I oftentimes go and do uh guest lectures at Stanford and I always try to ask like raise your hand if you have an immediate family member that serves in the military. No one ever raises their hand. It's crazy. Like at Stanford, there are
[00:58:17] veterans that come in that go to the GSB and things like that. But in like the undergrad undergraduate student population, it's incredibly rare for anyone to have any connection whatsoever in their immediate family to the military. And I I think there's like, you know, some of this goes back to criticisms that people like J.D. Vance uh the vice president has made about, you know, elites in America and things
[00:58:39] like that. But there's just this incredible divide that has happened. Um and we're kind of losing touch with that kind of salt of the earth middle of the country, you know, veteran community that I I feel like was way more present during the the Cold War uh and and, you know, the World War II before that. >> Do you think that there's any external influence that's driving this culture? Are there influences on social media, in
[00:59:03] mainstream media? And maybe just talk about destabilization and the attack vectors. I've seen it in other areas of science. I don't want to spend time on this show talking about it, but there have been traces that I found on external folks that want to destabilize American science and industry progress. And they create fear, and they put out articles, and then they go social, and they they become viral, and suddenly everyone believes it even
[00:59:28] though it's not true. Do you see that and have you actually kind of seen that in the sense of like attacking the tech companies that are now supporting American defense? 100% even if you go back to let's stick with Vietnam. The Soviets spent $7 million in 2026 dollars funding the peace movement, the anti-war protest. Now there's obviously some there is an organic element to it, but this is just dumping gasoline on the
[00:59:51] fire to sow division and discord. I think in the present day I I think you know certainly we see it against Palantir where there there's CCP money flowing to organizations that are protesting us for various domestic issues here. The it's not isolated. It's it's broadly a successful strategy for adversaries to sow division. No one will believe it because no one wants to believe that they're being influenced. Right but but I I think Shawn's point is
[01:00:14] exactly right. It's like it's actually a brilliant strategy. Like good for them. They are they are not our friends. They are adversaries. What would you do if you were in their shoes? It makes a ton of sense. Do we do that? I mean look we have we have all sorts of counter-intelligence operations operating around the world. The modern art movement was really funded by the CIA to undermine the kind of Soviet control of art. You know and it was it
[01:00:37] was broadly funded and it wasn't it wasn't directed by CIA but you you can see how we have cultural values that we want to inculcate and spread. Do you think we have a shot at recasting the defense industry, the tech industry that's addressing defense and aligning it with a notion of patriotism? And what is it going to take to make that happen? I don't know maybe writing a book. Oh yeah you have a book. That's right.
[01:01:03] That's right. I'm trying to do exactly that. You know look if if we look at it clear-eyed sense of the world and and how much deterrence we've lost you you could you could really say like maybe World War III has already started and 10 years from now we'll look back and and and be able to perceive that. Right now I I think you don't need literally everyone to view this but if you can if you can create a more clear-eyed view of
[01:01:22] what's at stake here, not only for you but for your children and their future, I I think you can you can get people to show up and participate. And this is this has been America's story all the time, you know, and usually when we start these things, we are the underdog. All periods of American greatness have started when we realized that we're the underdog. We were the 17th largest army in the world at the beginning of World
[01:01:41] War II. You know, and what did a ragtag bunch of farmers and random tradesmen have taking on the world's largest army in the British during the Revolutionary War, you know, and and I I think um having some clarity about what's at stake, what the counterfactual is. It's so easy when you're successful to kind of let the nihilism grow and say like, "Look how imperfect we are." There's like the self-loathing creeps in. And
[01:02:05] this is where I take coming back to your point on the legitimacy of our institutions. Like, should these institutions work? Do they deserve the best software? I mean, look, if they're public or private, you can't have doors falling off planes. You you know, our our government organizations need to provide the basic services they've signed up to do without fraud, without corruption, in an efficient way. And the
[01:02:21] reason is not just an aesthetic. It's like in the absence of that, it breeds nihilism. And the younger generations look at that and say, "You know, we should just tear all this down." And things will absolutely get worse in a world that looks like that. So, it's incumbent on us to wake up every day and fight for the legitimacy of these institutions to make them more functional. >> America's story is never written. It's
[01:02:41] every chapter seems to be a whole new arc. And we're in one right now. There's a rising socialist movement in the United States. Can you guys just comment on how much you think that that socialist movement, cast with whatever term they want to use, is going to affect our capacity for defense and resiliency going into the next decade, particularly as our adversaries are rising? Well, the argument I've always made is I think our our greatest threat
[01:03:06] as a nation is not homicide, it's suicide. And it's it's in this vein. It's the internal discord, it's the division, uh it's the it's the self-loathing, it's uh you know, things like the socialist movement, which I think are symptomatic of this internal discord and ensuring opportunity for our people to the point of a functioning elite. If you were to go backwards and think about the root cause, like maybe we
[01:03:28] don't have an elite that cares enough about the prosperity of the American people. And we've made decisions through globalization. We were told NAFTA was going to be a great thing. That actually if you lost your job in manufacturing, why don't you just learn how to code? You know, there's a certain sort of callousness in that and you know, I'm not an unabashed free market I'm clearly not a communist, but there's a sense of
[01:03:47] where the decision on the margin actually really does matter and that comes down to leadership. I think one thing that makes me a little hopeful is that socialism literally doesn't work. Um and so, you know, you look at, you know, what happened in San Francisco even where, you know, we elect Chesa Boudin as the district attorney and then we're like, oh wow, this is not going well. Recall him. Yeah. We have the
[01:04:08] board of education >> Rooted in a selling point of empathy. Right. Right fundamentally. Yeah. Uh what happened with the board of education getting recalled, you know, Daniel Lurie coming in as the mayor. Uh you know, we felt like we kind of went into this valley and sort of hit rock bottom. Um but I do think that people eventually realize that it doesn't it just fundamentally doesn't work. >> Seattle and Washington state are likely
[01:04:30] going to lose a large number of their biggest employers and as that happens they'll come through on the other side probably. Might take them 7 to 10 years to get there. It might be painful and it might take them a long time, but I think they'll eventually come to their senses. >> What do you two disagree on? That's a great question. Yeah. Um we actually, I'll be honest, we bickered with each other quite a bit at Palantir.
[01:04:50] Um and usually it was Shawn being right about something and me taking a long time to come come along to his point of view. Um but uh yeah, I think, you know, any of these cultures that are like well functioning are rooted in debate. Um and you know, eventually But you're avoiding my question. Whether it's whether it's actions or outlooks. Whether you should show up to your interview at a tech company in a suit. Yeah, I know. Well, no, I I will