[00:14:23] to arrest. These are dangerous missions and these agitators are interfering and making these missions even more dangerous. Now, the media has tried to portray good and pretty as simply innocent bystanders or people who were peacefully protesting ICE policies. They weren't. They were foot soldiers in these Antifa style operations and most importantly they brought deadly weapons to the fight. So Renee Good hit an
[00:14:50] officer with her SUV which under a Minnesota law signed by Tim Waltz himself in 2020 justifies the use of deadly force by an officer to defend himself. And Alex Prey was even more reckless. I think we've probably all seen the video by now where he sought confrontation with ICE officials. He was kicking the car. He was in a rage. This wasn't his first time doing this. And any experienced gun owner will tell you
[00:15:13] that if you're armed and you're dealing with law enforcement, you have to be the world's biggest pacifist because you're putting your life in danger by making them fear that their lives are in danger. And I think the mainstream media didn't tell people these facts. They just presented highly selective camera angles. They even airbrushed and facetuned Prey to make him appear to be a more, I guess, handsome victim, which
[00:15:36] is truly sick. Now, in a way, I feel sorry for Good and Pretty because they were the victims of a tinder box that was created in Minnesota by the extreme rhetoric and decisions of Tim Waltz, Jacob Fry, and the political establishment. The local police in Minneapolis should have been allowed to keep conditions safe on the street by creating a perimeter and keeping protesters away from ICE officers who were executing lawful warrants of
[00:16:08] arrest. But the police were told not to. And then the agitators stepped in and they took advantage of this sort of vacuum of authority to physically intervene. So I think it was almost inevitable that some sort of tragedy was going to result from this abdication of public safety. Now why would Walson Frey want to risk such tragedies with their massive resistance? I think there's two reasons for this. This is the last point
[00:16:33] I want to make. First, they are desperate to change the subject from the billions of dollars of fraud that they allow to occur on their watch. Remember we had Nick Shirley on the show just a few weeks ago talking about the 8 billion so that was stolen by Somali fraudsters and this campaign of resistance in Minneapolis has done a really good job making everyone forget about that. But I think there's a second and bigger reason that applies and I
[00:16:59] think it applies to to national Democrats which is they want to thwart mass deportations because illegal immigrants are a vital part of their power base. And you can see this in the 2030 aortionment forecast which just came out. Illegal aliens count towards the census which occurs every decade. And the census determines the aortionment of congressional seats and electoral votes. And what you see in these maps is that
[00:17:26] citizens of blue states have been migrating to red states because those blue states are failing. And as a result of that, blue states are expected to lose nine house seats and electoral votes because of the changing population numbers. Illegal aliens in blue states have been propping up those numbers. And so, for example, in the last election, President Trump would have won an additional nine electoral votes
[00:17:54] if we had an accurate counting. So, look, this is not about principle. This is bare knuckle politics. The Democrats are playing for keeps. They don't really care how many innocent Americans get hurt or killed in the process. This is about thwarting a popular policy of deportations and sealing the border which the American people voted for. So don't let the media fool you. >> Freedber Chimath, you want to give your
[00:18:19] opinion on these two tragic deaths >> or not? I mean, I don't feel you're obligated to comment on this if you don't want to. >> I'm happy to. Nick, I sent a clip into the chat. >> Deported all immigrants who are here illegally, 55% of the New York Times, Marquette, 64%. CBS News, 57%. ABC News with a slightly different question, 56%. So, what you're seeing essentially here is a very clear indication that a majority of Americans, in fact, when
[00:18:48] they're asked this blunt question, which I believe gets at the underlying feelings, do in fact want to deport all immigrants who are here illegally. There's no arguing with these different numbers cuz they're all essentially the same across four different pollsters. >> I think Sax is right that there's a very very vocal minority. But if we just put that aside, it's important right now to just stick to the facts. Democracy is
[00:19:08] supposed to be the will of the majority, but also defense and protection for the minority. In this example, the will of the majority is pretty clear. As the CNN clip just showed, everybody wanted the southern border shut and the northern border shut and a structured path to deal with illegal immigration. David's right that that creates a cascade of second and third order effects that have huge implications with respect
[00:19:39] to the Democrats and their ability to have and curate power. I don't know whether this is what's motivating them or not. I don't want to speculate on that. But the conceptual problem and the conceptual desire of Americans is undisputable. I think that's why Donald Trump won. Now I think though we have to explore the tactics. I think the reality is that both of these two deaths were complete and total tragedies
[00:20:06] and it has created such an upswell that it has the potential to spin out of control. And if it does that, it risks his ability to continue doing his job and delivering on the conceptual promise that everybody wants. The other thing is that I think that he has otherwise, the president, done an incredible job up until now. The fact that Tom Hman is going there is a really good thing. He was the same person that was awarded a
[00:20:33] medal by Obama for how he managed Obama's deportation process. It's time to just get control of the process and dial down the temperature because the structural things that they are doing are correct. There are people here that broke the law. There are criminals that are here illegally. We need to remove them because that is the will of the majority. Now we just need to find a way of doing it that creates some freedom to
[00:20:59] operate for all of law enforcement so that these tragedies stop. That's my two cents. >> Okay. Freedberg, would you like to comment on this or pass? I >> I'll comment. Can I just ask you to react to what Sach said? Do you agree or disagree with his point about the Democrats needing to remove people because they do count in the census and they increase the seats in the House. >> Elon's talked about this a whole bunch
[00:21:22] as well that the immigration is being done to boost the voter roles. I don't know enough about the census specifically because that occurs x number of years and uh if it's accurate at all. So I'll leave that aside and do some research on it. In terms of importing people for votes, this uh strategy does not make a lot of logical sense. And so many workingclass people voted Trump into office and so many specifically uh Hispanic people, Mexican
[00:21:52] people are all voting for Trump now because he's a populist and he appeals to to that group. So whatever if Biden and the Democrats were doing that for that reason, that makes no sense. And also those people would have to become citizens in order to vote and that's a 20 30year process. So, you know, they'd be playing an incredibly long game uh on that front >> unless there is cheating in the voting. >> Yeah. >> And we've talked about that as well
[00:22:20] here. >> For example, if there's no voter ID, you know, >> you know, the Heritage Foundation, I think David, you worked there at some point, right? Did an internship. >> That uh organization, that think tank has done tremendous research into this. They have a database. I think they've collected now 3,000 cases of voter fraud over a 40-year period. So really the whole concept of voter forward being able to tilt a presidential election is
[00:22:43] just ridiculous and has not been proven. I think Trump filed about 50 or 60 lawsuits and lost all 50 of them. So there's there's no credence to that. Uh but you know I have a couple of thoughts broader on what we've seen and I do actually agree with you David. There should be voter ID everywhere. I I don't think anybody should be able to vote without a driver's license. If you can't or ID if you can't take the time to get
[00:23:03] ID why should you vote? It doesn't make a lot of sense right. >> Why do you think that's such a push on the other side though Jal? Like what's the motivation for not having IDs? >> The stated >> if it's not about getting people to vote that aren't allowed to vote. >> The stated reason, which I don't believe, is that it's more democratic and you want to get as many people to vote as possible. So, but I don't agree
[00:23:24] with that. I think everybody should have ID. >> Yeah. Like you got to have ID to buy a beer, right? So, >> yeah. I mean, to get on a plane to I mean, even to ride a train, like you need an ID. I don't I don't understand. >> I think the answer speaks for itself. I mean, uh, to me it's obvious the reason why you prohibit, by the way, it's not just saying you can vote without an ID. They actually prohibit the people
[00:23:42] administering the polls from checking. There's only one reason to do that. You want to allow cheating, obviously. And one of the things that Doge found was that there were lots of illegal aliens being added to the social security roles. Now, they weren't necessarily collecting social security, but in a lot of >> they were actually paying into it. So, it was quite the opposite. My point is that when you get an SSN number, in a
[00:24:03] lot of states, all you have to do is check a box when you get a driver's license, which they also give to illegal aliens in order to be added to the voter roles. >> So, they are finding illegal aliens on voter roles. But look, regardless of where you are on cheating in elections, the census just counts total population and then they aortion house seats and electoral votes based on total population, including illegal aliens.
[00:24:26] And there is data on this. Trump would have won the last election by an additional nine electoral votes if these changes had been made before the last election in 72. >> Do you think uh >> so just to put a pin on that point? It's really important because what it means is that a future Republican would not need to somehow crack the Democrats blue wall of Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Right? So nine electoral
[00:24:52] votes is a lot and it does put the presidency that much further out of reach for future Democratic candidates. It provides a powerful incentive and it's again it's not just the electoral votes. It's also these House seats. California would have lost House seats. I think it was like four if this had been recognized because again there's been a huge migration. Jake, you know this better than anybody since you're
[00:25:14] one of the people who've left. The state is so badly mismanaged that people have been fleeing blue states in droves. And the fact that you've got illegal aliens then replacing that population mass that effect and allows these blue states to maintain their level of representation in the house. That is a huge incentive. >> Freeberg, do you support the use of ICE agents DHS to go into these cities and do you think they were
[00:25:43] too violent? And do you agree with that strategy that Trump's now seems like pulling back? >> I mean, I know the answer. We talked about it on private chat. Yeah. >> Okay. I'll be very matter of fact. >> Yeah. >> Neither of these people should be dead. It's sad that it happened. >> Who's to blame? >> Neither of these people should have been doing what they were doing. Federal law enforcement agents should not wear masks.
[00:26:11] They should identify themselves when asked. Ideally, they wear body cams like local law enforcement does. I like body cams. I actually like watching videos of police wearing body cams on YouTube and Tik Tok. I think it's a very important way to hold law enforcement accountable to their work. There may be reasons why federal law enforcement can't do that. If they're undercover and whatnot, they shouldn't have to identify themselves,
[00:26:33] but I think those are important ground rules. I think that federal law enforcement should have warrant or probable cause. They should not be allowed to randomly ask people for papers. I don't agree with that. If that's what they're doing, and I'm not saying that that's what I agents are doing. >> No, no, that's what they were doing. That's all been proven. >> I don't know that. I don't know if that's been proven.
[00:26:53] >> Wearing masks, not identifying themselves. >> That's not what I'm talking about. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. There have been a lot of claims made that they're going around quote rounding people up asking for ID and papers. I don't know if that's true. I have personally not been convinced of that. You may have seen something else, but I've not been convinced of that. But if that is what they're doing, there is no
[00:27:11] probable cause and there's no warrant attached to that. That should not be allowed. I think the mechanism for fixing that, the mechanism for addressing that is number one to go to federal courts and file injunctions, which is actively happening through the legal process. And there's a due process that then would take place that would determine whether these agents are following the law and doing things by the rule of law or are not. And if
[00:27:33] they're not, injunctions will be imposed and they can't do what they're doing. Short of that, no one should take it into their own hands to obstruct law enforcement, federal or local law enforcement. I think that that is wrong. I don't think that individuals that disagree with a law or disagree with the actions of law enforcement officers should obstruct their actions. The correct path is number one to protest
[00:27:56] peacefully, number two to go to the courts and file injunctions, and number three to change the law. To go to your local, >> vote for someone and change the law. I think it's totally okay for protesters to not like the law. There's a million laws and regulations and other that I fundamentally disagree with, but those don't give me the right to impose myself physically in the driveway with a car blocking law enforcement from doing
[00:28:23] their job. If law enforcement was arresting a non-ilgal immigrant murderer and someone did that, would people be up in arms? It's because people disagree with the law. And if you disagree with the law, you've got to change the law. And that's okay. Now, right now, it is the case that it is the law that if someone came here without going through the immigration process as defined by the law, then they are technically here
[00:28:49] illegally. That is the law. That's what it is. And so, there is a course or a path or a point of view on how do you enforce that law and that is what people are having disagreements over. And again, file injunctions if you don't like the methods, change the law if you don't like the law. My personal view on immigration, just so I can wrap this all up, I don't see how we're going to do this in a humane and just way of
[00:29:12] removing people from this country who have been here for a period of time and have paid taxes and have been good contributors to this country. I don't know how you're going to do it. I don't know how you're going to do it without inciting a civil war. So I think the compromise has to be that there has to be a path to permanent residency and eventually citizenship for individuals who have been in the United States for
[00:29:31] some period of time who have followed other laws who have paid taxes and who have not taken advantage of public services that they are not supposed to use. With those conditions met there should be some path otherwise we're going to have civil war. I think that separate to this there's a bigger point to be made and Ray Dalio has made this and I will restate it and you guys can roll your eyes at this but I think that
[00:29:54] there's a deep emotional driver to all of this. People look at this and they get incited. They get activated emotionally. Everyone I speak to is activated emotionally over this issue and we have to ask ourselves the important question of why are people activated so emotionally right now? What is going on? What is the fundamental root cause of this? What is the fundamental root cause of this prediction model that Ray Dalio has
[00:30:15] talked about saying that there's a 35 to 40% chance of a civil war in the United States based on predictions that he made in 2020. And it is rooted fundamentally in the fact that everyone to some degree feels some amount of oppression right now. And this is a manifestation of that oppressed feeling. That oppression comes from the fact that the world is racing ahead and people are not a part of it. that people feel like they're being left
[00:30:38] behind and they see victims of that world and they want to act. And I think we need to pay attention to that and be very cognizant of it because I think fundamentally it is an inevitability that there will be a civil war if we don't recognize it and address it and find some paths of compromise to solve these problems. >> Okay, I'm done. >> Uh, superb. >> So, it ship it. Episode done. I mean, >> let's go home. >> So, yeah, I'm strongly in agreement with