[00:28:49] illegally. That is the law. That's what it is. And so, there is a course or a path or a point of view on how do you enforce that law and that is what people are having disagreements over. And again, file injunctions if you don't like the methods, change the law if you don't like the law. My personal view on immigration, just so I can wrap this all up, I don't see how we're going to do this in a humane and just way of
[00:29:12] removing people from this country who have been here for a period of time and have paid taxes and have been good contributors to this country. I don't know how you're going to do it. I don't know how you're going to do it without inciting a civil war. So I think the compromise has to be that there has to be a path to permanent residency and eventually citizenship for individuals who have been in the United States for
[00:29:31] some period of time who have followed other laws who have paid taxes and who have not taken advantage of public services that they are not supposed to use. With those conditions met there should be some path otherwise we're going to have civil war. I think that separate to this there's a bigger point to be made and Ray Dalio has made this and I will restate it and you guys can roll your eyes at this but I think that
[00:29:54] there's a deep emotional driver to all of this. People look at this and they get incited. They get activated emotionally. Everyone I speak to is activated emotionally over this issue and we have to ask ourselves the important question of why are people activated so emotionally right now? What is going on? What is the fundamental root cause of this? What is the fundamental root cause of this prediction model that Ray Dalio has
[00:30:15] talked about saying that there's a 35 to 40% chance of a civil war in the United States based on predictions that he made in 2020. And it is rooted fundamentally in the fact that everyone to some degree feels some amount of oppression right now. And this is a manifestation of that oppressed feeling. That oppression comes from the fact that the world is racing ahead and people are not a part of it. that people feel like they're being left
[00:30:38] behind and they see victims of that world and they want to act. And I think we need to pay attention to that and be very cognizant of it because I think fundamentally it is an inevitability that there will be a civil war if we don't recognize it and address it and find some paths of compromise to solve these problems. >> Okay, I'm done. >> Uh, superb. >> So, it ship it. Episode done. I mean, >> let's go home. >> So, yeah, I'm strongly in agreement with
[00:31:05] you. the police should um not be interfered with. I said that here and I said it on Twitter. You should stay home if you can't peacefully protest and also agree with you strongly. The police uh should be trained to deescalate, wear body cameras, not wear masks, be trained properly, all that stuff. But I I want to make three points here. And the first is, you know, President Trump has surrounded himself with a lot
[00:31:29] of really competent people, yourself included, David Rubio, Bessant, Lutnik, Kushner. We had a lot of them here. my pal Chris Wright, but he's also surrounded himself with very inexperienced sick offense that he picked based on their loyalty to him and that group needs to go because that group is sinking his second term. I'll put on that list Steven Miller, Christy Gnome, Cash Patel, and Pam Bondi. Uh these folks have been a disaster for
[00:31:54] Trump. They're not qualified to be in the positions they're in, and they have caused a lot of chaos. And back in August, I explained exactly how unpopular these, you know, ICE actions were. And I implored people, hey, stay home if you cannot be peaceful. If you want to record people, that's fine. But I predicted as well that somebody's going to get killed. And that these agents were acting just without training. They
[00:32:21] were not deescalating. And they were in fact provoking a lot of this which I think was part of the concept that Steven Miller had was to provoke these kind of reactions. Nick, you can pull up my first chart. You remember back in October was talking about Trump's sinking approval rating back when these ICE issues were happening. The Epstein files weren't being released. Then in November, I brought this up again.
[00:32:46] Trump's uh net approval rating hit 13%. And then same chart coming up now. He's uh 18%. What's And you know, a lot of people like to use this term taco. Trump always chicken out chickens out. I don't like when people use that because I think they're trying to goat him on. I think he needs to react to these plummeting ratings here. If you could play the Tillis quote, Nick, >> if I were in her position, I can't think
[00:33:16] of any point in pride over the last year. She's got to make her own decision or the president does. But she has taken this administration into the ground on an issue that we should own. We should own the issue of border security and immigration. But they have destroyed that for Republicans. Something that got the president elected. They have destroyed it through their incompetence. David Miller is in the same boat. this
[00:33:36] guy after doing the stupid comments he made about Greenland getting the president in a difficult circumstance is one of the people that came out publicly and said that this guy was a terrorist before he had even talked with anybody on the ground and that's clearly not the case now. So I mean it's just I mean Steven Miller never fails to live up to my expectations of incompetence. >> And here's Marowski uh with a similar
[00:33:59] opinion another Republican. >> Senator, do you have faith in Christine Noam as DHS secretary? I I've already made a statement on that. >> Oh, I I wasn't there for it. >> Yeah, I I said that I've lost confidence in her. >> Do you think that President Trump should remove her from the position? Do you think she should resign? >> Obviously, up to the president. Um I think we would be we would be better served with leadership.
[00:34:24] >> At the end of the day, Americans don't like to see this violence. They don't like cruelty. They don't like chaos. The reason Trump lost to Biden, who's not a very strong candidate, is because of the general chaos people felt with the immigrant ban the last time and people do want to see the border closed and that has had a great effect I think on the country and I think that's fantastic and he should take a victory
[00:34:49] lap for that. But leadership starts at the top. President Trump put Steven Miller in charge of all this. Uh I think he's a bad actor. I think these people who he hired were picked strictly to do lawfare and to do this kind of sadistic violent behavior to feed a MAGA base that's not going to keep Trump in office and in fact going to cause him to lose the second uh to lose the midterms. So the easy solution which I brought up
[00:35:18] here over and over again is if you want to stop having people come into this country, you have to look at why they're coming to this country. They're coming to this country because they want to have a better life. That's why they're coming here. And that's why they'll pay a coyote 10 or 20 or $30,000 and risk their own safety coming across that border where many people die and abused and are abused. So if you want to stop
[00:35:39] this, all you have to do is go to the business owners and find them. And if they keep hiring illegal aliens, you keep finding them and you put them in jail. But you don't see Steven Miller doing that. Why? Well, because a lot of those businesses are the voters who put Trump in office. They're Republicans. Yeah. Sure, there's Democrat owned business owners as well, but you can solve this whole problem without sending
[00:35:59] mass agents in to beat the out of people, to be violent, to provoke these kind of reactions. And that doesn't absolve people driving their cars into the police. That's horrible and it's a terrible tragedy. And these people, as I've said three or four times, uh should not go out and protest. But you could solve this. If there are no job opportunities for illegal aliens, they will stop coming here. finally agree
[00:36:23] with your point strongly, Freedberg, that we should be compassionate to the people who have been here 10, 20 years and paid their taxes. I've said this here many times. They should be given a path. America is a country built by immigrants for immigrants, including the three of you, my bestie immigrants. >> And we all came here illegally or our parents did >> and we didn't seek into the country. >> Yeah, absolutely.
[00:36:45] >> Now, you kind of gave this diet trial. I don't know why you've picked Steven Miller as the vessel of your hatred. It's like you've >> No, it's not hatred. I based on >> There's been a transference. There's been a transference of your >> trans just based on his TDS to Steven Miller derangement syndrome or something like that. >> If he if his actions were if his actions were kind and compassionate >> if if his if he was compassionate
[00:37:08] towards immigrants and uh recognize the importance of immigrants to this American story, I would be fine with it. It's just based on his behavior. David, I don't have TDS. You can name call all you want. I'm just basing it on your behavior. >> You've decided to do this ad homonym against him. And look, the big picture is that threat is basing it on their I'm basing it on their qualifications. >> You're not really presenting You're not
[00:37:31] really presenting evidence. You're showing what other people think. You're showing polling and then what a few senators think. So basically, you're trying to build a Hold on. You're Hold on. Let me finish my point. You're basically trying to build a case against him by using the opinions and declarations of other people rather than actually presenting evidence and building that case other than just a name call and say that he's not
[00:37:51] compassionate. The big picture is that I would say that Steven Miller has been more correct about immigration than you have been over the last several years. For years, you were denying that we had an open border problem, did you not? >> No. No. for one year when the spike went up I said let's get the data on this because it doesn't make sense that it would triple year-over-year and then we found out that it was in fact and with
[00:38:13] the new information I changed my opinion and said yeah this is obviously happening that was literally what happened >> well I don't know I mean during the buying years I remember we had a bunch of debates about this and you were saying >> my position was let's see the data cuz the data if you look I I I played this chart on the podcast many times we showed like the last four years and then there was a spike and I said this
[00:38:33] doesn't make any sense How did this spike happen? It's just my opinion. You don't have to have a you can have a difference of opinion. >> Let me go back to the origin of the chaos in Minnesota. You don't see this happening in other states. And I just want to point out one of the major reasons why. So in other states, you know, take your pick. When you have an illegal alien and they get arrested, they get handed over to ICE or Border
[00:38:56] Patrol for deportation. That's what's happening in Minnesota. the politicians have given an instruction not to do that. So, literally, you have criminals, people who've been arrested. There's a case that was just um posted today of an illegal alien in Minneapolis who killed an innocent mother and severely injured two others backto back in uh drunk driving crashes. He did not have a valid driver's license, did not have
[00:39:23] insurance. He was arrested for vehicular homicide. ICE asked him to be turned over to them and the authorities in Minneapolis refused to do that and they eventually released him. So that puts ICE in the position of having to go out and find these guys and arrest them. That's how all these operations started. And you make it sound like these guys are the Gestapo and they just randomly round people up. That's not what's
[00:39:47] happening. They have arrest warrants with the names of specific people that they're going after. There are arrest warrants, but there were also Steven Miller told them to just go round people up at specific locations. So, >> there is that as well. And they've been trying to hit numbers that they just can't possibly hit. You have to ask yourself >> why didn't we have you have to ask yourself, I think, Sax, why didn't we
[00:40:08] have this kind of violence and unmarked people, breaking people's rights under Obama who did far more? >> I'll tell you why. You want to know why? Because Obama said that we should deport. Ultimately, our nation, like all nations, has the right and obligation to control its borders and set laws for residency and citizenship. And no matter how decent they are, no matter their reasons. The 11 million who broke these
[00:40:37] laws should be held accountable. >> I'm saying he was able to do it without sending masked agents in to beat the >> No, the Democratic party changed. That's what happened 15 years ago. the position that Obama Can I just talking about the policing? You ask me a question. Why wasn't the policeing? Why didn't this happen under Obama? Let me tell you the reason why the policing happen years ago. The Democrat party was still
[00:40:56] somewhat rational on this issue and it was basically a bipartisan position to support deportations of illegal aliens and not to have an open border. The Democrat party changed their point of view on this issue. Now, >> that's not what I'm talking about policing. >> Let me finish my point. Tom Hman has said over and over again, we don't want to go out on the street. It's dangerous. They don't want to be put in this
[00:41:16] position. ICSE has an incredibly dangerous job to do. Border Patrol has an incredibly dangerous job to do. By the way, the reason why they wear masks is because they're getting doxed by these groups who are organizing with each other on signal and they're being followed around. They're being stalked. They're being chased to their hotels and these guys follow them around. They block their cars by um interposing
[00:41:36] vehicles. They're interfering in in official operations. They're interfering with arrest and they're getting in physical altercations with them. This is very dangerous for eyes. They don't want to be in this position. But the reason why all of this is happening is because Tim Waltz and Jacob Fry and the rest of these guys, Lieutenant Governor, they are saying, &quot;Do not cooperate with ICE. Do not cooperate with the border
[00:41:57] patrol.&quot; Telling local authorities in Minnesota, when you arrest an illegal alien, do not turn them over to ICE. It's better to release them. These people are such anti-ICE zealots that they would rather release a killer onto the street than keep them in jail where they can be turned over to ICE. And that's the whole reason why they don't want to keep them in jail is because that would create a central repository,
[00:42:20] if you will, for ICE to go collect all these illegal aliens. Last year there was something like 470 convicts, okay? Illegal aliens, criminals. And I'm not talking about that their crime wasn't breaking into the country. I'm talking about subsequent crimes that were released in Minnesota so they they cannot be rounded up by ICE and deported. These people are zealots and that is the source of the problem. And then on top
[00:42:46] of that, you've got rhetoric by people like Tim Walls and the lieutenant governor calling ICE and Border Patrol agents who are just trying to do their jobs the Gestapo and Nazis and riing people up. And I think that people like Alex Pretty or Renee Good, they're victims of this type of rhetoric. These are left-wing activists who are in this leftwing echo chamber and they're baronating in all this rhetoric that's
[00:43:13] portraying law enforcement officials as Nazis and they're embibing this constantly to the point where they're full of rage and anger. You see that video of Alex Pretty attacking Border Patrol. This is two weeks before he gets killed. He's kicking the car. He's like foaming at the mouth. He's in some sort of rage. This is someone who's emotionally disturbed and he's got a a gun on his waistband, which look, every
[00:43:36] gun owner knows that you have to be exceedingly careful if you are carrying a weapon and then you are dealing with law enforcement. The last thing you want to do is go out looking for an altercation with them, which is what he did. And by the way, I think it's completely tragic that the two of them were killed. I don't want to see that happen. But again, they are victims of this political environment, this chaos
[00:43:58] that's being whipped up by the elected officials in Minnesota. This would not be happening if they simply turned over the illegal aliens in their custody to ICE and Border Patrol, which is all that they're asking for. >> I've said on this podcast like many times, but none of you will respond to it. Why are they doing this instead of just finding the business owners? Wouldn't that be a better policy? And you're in the White House, you're around
[00:44:19] these people. Why don't you tell them why don't we do that? Why don't we just give fines to business owners who hire illegals and stop the incentive to come here? >> How do you know that they hired illegals? How would you know that? And if you know that, then you know the individual. >> It's super simple. You would just go do uh a little investigation. You go to the car wash, you videotape it like any other detective or any other federal