[01:10:41] the US and mainland China are onshoring uh manufacturing, and that makes Taiwan less of a strategic point of interest for the United States and for the United States industry. Maybe one of the ways to think about the positive aspect of what is going on, which is maybe call it the Balkanization of generally manufacturing, but specifically semiconductor manufacturing in this case, is reduced security concerns. So, there's no longer this
[01:11:05] flash point perhaps in Taiwan. If China did invade Taiwan and the US had fab manufacturing, we're less likely to want to defend Taiwan. And frankly, if China has fabs on mainland, do they really need to invade Taiwan? What's the economic interest in doing so? >> Yeah, that's kind of where I was going with it. >> But, if they also wanted to jump-start, Friedberg, they could just go to Taiwan and take the machines. Like, is that
[01:11:26] actually the plan? Like, I I don't know what the CCP's plan is. I think that's a pretty um simple statement to make. I think just going to Taiwan is probably a lot more complicated than Of course it is. My point is if this if this was super existential to get those chips for China and they go to Taiwan and they have to then they've reverse-engineered the machines by default. >> we we need to recognize we keep using
[01:11:48] the term reverse engineering as if ASML is the only way to do this, and it is not. If you read their papers, and you read what's coming out, there are alternative production manufacturing methods and systems that are being developed in China that not only maybe provide parity to ASML, but get ahead of ASML. And I think this is really important to understand. China is not just in a catch-up race, they're in a
[01:12:09] primacy race. And they are trying to develop primacy in lithography technology, which will give them primacy in manufacturing, which will give them primacy in AI, which will give them economic leverage over the planet. And that is very critical for us to understand. This is not about stealing data from ASML. Like, no one gives a if you're sitting in China and you're thinking about I've got the world's best scientists or some of the
[01:12:28] world's best scientists, and I'm giving them the resources and I'm giving them the mandate to go solve this problem. The government, as I mentioned last year, put $40 billion against this problem and said go figure it out. And these guys at Tsinghua are publishing some groundbreaking research on how to do it. But, it's easier to catch up or to copy than to innovate, right? So, if you're China, the first thing you want to do is
[01:12:51] just copy EUV and get that technology for yourself. >> Well, let me ask you this. What would you do? So, you're the AI czar, you're sitting in the United States, and China's got this lithography technology. Is your goal to steal their technology or is your goal to get your best scientists and say let's get ahead of their technology? If I'm China? Neither. I think it would be to solve It's to solve the problem. What is the
[01:13:10] actual economic commercial problem we're solving? >> Right. And so, if you can figure out a way to do manufacturing better, cheaper, faster than the way the the China does it, you would obviously take that path. You're not trying to get to parity with China if you view yourself to be supreme to China. >> you have to understand, even with these EUV machines >> And the same is true on the other side. >> at two or even sub-two nanometer scale,
[01:13:30] you have these incredible laws of physics that you are pushing to the boundaries of, which cause these chips to have pretty low yield. You have a lot of systems that actually aren't that efficient and highly utilized as a result. So, these systems are brittle. The second thing is that when you have these compute-centric architectures, you end up making design decisions like HBM. They'll have to go and steal all the
[01:13:52] HBM, which is the high-bandwidth memory business that SK Hynix and Samsung have. But again, that's where Nvidia and then Google have an effective monopoly. Let me ask you a question, Sachs. I mean, what's your strategic response if China next year goes into manufacturing with a sub-two nanometer system that's got higher yields, is faster, is cheaper than anything that we're seeing anywhere else in the world? Well,
[01:14:15] I don't think that's going to happen. Let's talk about that if it actually happens. I don't think it's going to. But, what would I be focused on right now? I would say we want to get more of the leading edge manufacturing in the United States. TSMC has already opened a big fab in Arizona, and they're planning on increasing the size of that, and that's really important. And we should get all these restrictions out of the
[01:14:39] way. They're facing all sorts of permitting restrictions. I mean, all the stuff that Bernie's talking about where he wants to slow down I mean, he's talking about data centers, but not So, you if you've got Bernie Sanders, the concepts are the same. Ro Khanna, Elizabeth Warren, This is exactly wrong. >> I mean, >> Anti-tech progress people saying let's stop all this stuff. Meanwhile, China is not just racing to catch up, but they're
[01:15:01] likely going to get ahead of the United States. And if we're caught flat-footed because we've got a moratorium on development, a moratorium on production, it's going to be extraordinarily damaging. Right. Well, look, this is where I agree with you is that if this Reuters report is accurate, it does speed up the timeline on China closing the chip gap from you know, adjacent to a few years. You can go read the
[01:15:24] Tsinghua papers. You'll see that these guys are so advanced. >> If they care about being ahead, why are they publishing that paper? So, by the way, this is a really important point, and I've picked up on this from a number of different disciplines in scientific research. So, what's been going on is scientists in China, they're very smart people, there's very great scientists there. And like all scientists, they don't
[01:15:45] think necessarily in terms of nationalism first. They think in terms of science. They want to publish their research. They want to be known. They want to be the discoverers of these new frontiers. And so, they publish. And what we've seen in several instances is that the scientific research groups will publish, and they'll publish slightly ahead. And once they get ahead of the market or they get ahead of the world, suddenly they stop publishing.
[01:16:09] And it's almost like the CCP comes in and is like, "Okay, you guys are now, you know, going too far. We don't want to tip our hat too far." And the stuff starts to recede. And I think there was this one paper on optics that is designed to replace the Zeiss monopoly in optics that suddenly disappeared, and that research team stopped publishing. I got to find this paper. This came out last year. But, there are a number of these
[01:16:31] disciplines where there's publications that go to a certain extent, and then they stop publishing. So, I think that there's a little bit of a mechanism >> of the funding cycle in China. You have every single local government that's given capital to invest in businesses. And so, they compete and compete until it gets to the state level and you have one or two national champions. >> But, if this was so important,
[01:16:49] Friedberg, would there also be an argument to publish things that would send um that would be misinformation or send people down a wrong direction? No, because you have to again, the funding cycle is you get as a policy person in Shanghai, you get promoted because you make a good bet. >> Yeah. And you make So, by the time it becomes one national To Friedberg's point, when's the last time you saw BYD or CATL publish anything meaningful?
[01:17:20] But, when they were not the national champion, they were probably publishing very aggressively. But, at that time, there was 50 different companies competing to be the national champion. So, I suspect what's happening here is there's 50 different semi-startups all over China. Everybody's trying to support their own local version, and eventually when there's one, they disappear. Hm. Okay. Interesting. I mean, one of the things
[01:17:44] we see is China does give money to these research institutions on frontier science, and then there's an industrialization. It's something the US isn't quite as good at, and I think it's Again, we've talked about the co-opting of our universities as research institutions over the last couple of decades. They've become these sort of employment centers, if you will, and they've become these sort of weird social engineering systems. They've kind
[01:18:07] of gotten away from some of the core research or that that's been kind kind of co-opted. In China, there are these sort of dedicated research centers, and then there are universities where there's very clear independent research that goes on on university campuses. They typically get quite a bit of funding. And the way this worked, if you look into the details of this China National Integrated Circuit Industry
[01:18:28] Investment Fund, and there were three funds, one, two, and three, the funds get bigger and bigger as the research teams make progress. Uh it's a very smart way of doing things from a central planning perspective. And then in in phase three, they're now targeting these specific unlocks that then will enable industrialization. So, they're funding some of this core research. The core research has these breakthroughs, and
[01:18:47] then it gets industrialized. It's during that research phase where we see a lot of publications happening. And this is happening in life sciences as well. And in physics and in materials science, and as soon as they start to get a little bit ahead of the curve, then it gets industrialized, and the and the publications kind of stop. So, I don't know if it's necessarily the CCP stepping in and saying, "Hey, stop
[01:19:04] publishing. You're going to let the world know too much of what we're having." versus, "Okay, the handoff is now happening, and industrialization begins." Yeah, look, I would just say that to me, the takeaway here is that the timeline on China closing the gap with us is being sped up. Whether it's the fact that they're copying what we're doing, whether EUV is being reverse engineered or maybe their scientists are
[01:19:26] figuring out a way to leapfrog. We are in a pretty close race with China, and that's why I think it's really important that we don't listen to Bernie and others who just want to stop the progress, cuz the progress is not going to stop. It's just going to happen in China. And that will be a big problem for the United States. All right, speaking of socialism/communism, are you guys thinking about coming to Austin, my neck of the woods? I've been
[01:19:50] uh pulling up these photos in Austin of these homes. [laughter] You know I'm doing it, right? >> Welcome to Texas, boys. Like on the lake. >> Sacks already bought a house. Sacks already bought a house. Sacks already hooked me up with the agent. What does she got you looking at? I'm not sure yet. We're just going to do a pool. >> are bidding against each other, >> have my sloppy seconds. You have the high ground, so you can
[01:20:12] negotiate hard. Uh there is so much inventory, but only like 20% of the inventory is on the MLS. 80% here, because it's a no reporting state, is off market. So, it's completely different than any other market, certainly California. I want to be on the lake. Like if I'm going to do this, I want to be on the water. Oh, really? I don't want the lake? I mean, if you're the here here's the challenge with the lake. People are going to come up
[01:20:38] to your house and take pictures and hang out like 2 ft off your house and starting at 7:00 a.m. >> house in San Francisco. Everybody's zipping around the lake in motorboats starting at 7:00 a.m. It's beautiful. I love it to the motorboats. >> it's great, but just understand it's going to get loud. What what There's nothing a good motorboating doesn't fix. >> [laughter] >> Who doesn't love a good motorboat? J Cal, I heard you're like an hour away.
[01:21:05] You're not even in Austin. I I'm in the hill country on my ranch, but we're getting a place closer to the city, actually. So, we're 30 minutes outside the city. We're 30 minutes. My god. I heard you're an hour I heard you're in the sticks. No, not that far. Not that far. No, he's in the suburbs of the suburbs. >> you want to have like, you know, dozens of acres, you can't do that in the city. When I was growing up in Memphis, they
[01:21:27] called that bumble Egypt. >> [laughter] >> BFE I mean, if you want a ranch and you want like dozens of acres, you can't do that you can get an acre to 3 acres inside of the city. >> an acre in Tarrytown. No problem. >> An acre is doable. 2 acres is possible. You know what's so sad? Even if this bill doesn't get on the books, which Everyone's leaving. there's a decent chance. It ripped the band-aid off. The revenues
[01:21:55] of California are going to plummet. Mhm. Plummet. Man, it is um yeah, I mean, we saw the writing on the wall. Socialism is coming and you know, this one of the great things about having a United States of America, the different states can optimize for different things. >> That one bill is the thing here. That one bill, this proposed billionaire tax, has single-handedly changed the trajectory of the California economy by
[01:22:22] 100 to 200 billion dollars over the next 5 to 10 years. It's an enormous self-own. People were here willing to pay the money, and now Yeah, people were willing to put up with a lot in this state. >> People were putting up with it. As soon as you tell people, "Hey, we're we're doing property seizures, property seizures, or the threat of property seizures, or the fact that people didn't come out against property
[01:22:44] seizures, is enough for everyone to be like, "See ya. See you later." The fact that all the politicians didn't in uniform stand up and say, "This is ridiculous. We're never going to let this happen." They let this happen. By not defending the property rights that are endowed in this country, they lost everything. They have to defend it. >> What do you think happens to the state budget over the next 4 or 5 years as a
[01:23:07] result of this? >> You're right. It's trash. And by the way, and then that's what drives the socialist spiral, because then they try and do more property seizures, and they try and get the money back. >> they going to tax? Everybody's going to be gone then. And here's the other crazy statistic that we never talk about. I was going to try and put some data together and get it as the topic, but we should save it for the new year.
[01:23:23] But the California pension fund system is underfunded by roughly a trillion dollars. So, these folks in the California pension fund system are sitting around waiting for money to come to them every year for the next 30, 40, 50 years, and the money isn't there. They're guaranteed that money from this pension fund system, and it's not there. What are they going to do? They're a trillion dollars short. That's a state obligation. Why would anybody
[01:23:47] hear something like that and think giving politicians more money is a good idea? These people are so fiscally irresponsible. They're fiscally illiterate. There is that. It's pretty clear to me that in New York and California, it'll be 60 plus percent taxes. And you know, if you were living in a perfect society that appreciated it and you had this incredible safety, you had extraordinary schools, and the roads and
[01:24:20] the public transit Everything works. Yeah, like Japan You'd pay 60% and you'd be ecstatic. Yeah, you'd be like, "Okay, whatever. It's a lot, but hey, this is a pretty great place to live." If you're paying that and people are breaking into your home and there's nine overdoses a day, you're like, "Wait a second." And then on top of that, by the way, And they're and they're seizing your private property now. Seizing your property.
[01:24:44] They're seizing your property, and by the way, they don't care about you. When it when you look at the laws, I was just talking to the law enforcement people. City's using your money to give homeless people vodka. It's just >> [laughter] >> Well, I mean, if it was tequila, I mean, I have a good tequila brand we could give to the homeless. Maybe we could make a deal. Yeah. Uh shout out to all the tequila coming to you.
[01:25:05] >> [laughter] >> The delivery's happening right now. Um In all seriousness, I was talking to some security folks, um and was talking to my security guy in Cal who's up in California, and um in California, not only do they not have the castle doctrine, they've replaced the castle doctrine where you can like defend your home if somebody comes into it with your gun uh and protect your family and your property, now you have to have this
[01:25:35] um duty to flee. So, you have to be able to run out of your home with your family as opposed to defend your family. So, they literally are telling the criminals, "Hey, listen, if you break into somebody's home in California, don't worry about getting shot. You they're going to have to run out, or else they're in the wrong." Like this is deranged. The the inmates have literally taken over the asylum. They they have taken over the asylum. I