[00:14:29] have so much cash on the balance sheets of these companies, Wall Street values it at zero. If you look at the enterprise value of any of these companies, and you do a sum of the parts, nobody cares about that cash. So, we need to start using that cash more effectively. What's the equivalent of the library metaphor here for you, Chamath? Do you have any ideas? I'm not going to front-run what's being worked on, except to say
[00:14:52] that the leaders of these companies have gotten the message. They are working on a whole host of solutions. And again, we're fighting misperception, which is the complicated battle, but it's winnable, and I think you're going to start to see stuff in the new year. Yeah, I would say education's at the top of that list. Sachs, your thoughts here as we wrap on this first topic. I'm not sure whether to address the particular hoaxes, or the
[00:15:16] fact that there are there's a larger effort here to try and discredit AI, and get AI development to stop entirely. Let's talk about some of these particular hoaxes. So, on the job loss claim, I feel like I do this every week now, but there's a new study from Vanguard, where they analyze job growth and wage growth in occupations that are highly exposed to AI automation versus all occupations. And they find that both job growth and
[00:15:48] wage growth is higher, not lower, in the occupations that are exposed to AI. So, if you look at job growth in occupations exposed to AI, it's 1.7% compared to 0.8% for other. For wage growth, it's 3.8% versus 0.7% for other. So, what you see here is something maybe is counterintuitive, but it makes sense to me, which is as you make workers more productive, the value of their labor increases, not decreases, and they end up getting paid
[00:16:20] more, and you want to hire more of them. So, this is a huge narrative violation. Again, this is coming from Vanguard. And it's showing that AI productivity is good for workers. This follows on the heels of that study from Yale Budget Lab, which I talked about in previous show, that it said there's no discernible disruption to the job market based on 33 months of data after the launch of ChatGPT. Now, I understand that you can
[00:16:48] make predictions as to the future that this state's going to change, that there will be AI job loss, but what I'm saying is that if you look at the data so far, there is no AI job loss. Quite the opposite, it's job growth and job gains. By the way, we have a 2% tailwind to GDP growth right now. That's coming from this AI boom, this CapEx boom that's happening. And so, this is, I think, a very good thing for the US economy. Now,
[00:17:16] why do people want to sabotage it? There's a really interesting article on Semafor recently that described how AI critics were funding journalism fellowships at major publications like NBC News, Bloomberg, Time, The Verge, LA Times, which by the way, I mean, I track these things, they're relentlessly negative about AI. These fellowships were funded by Future of Life Institute, which is a doomer group that AI is going to
[00:17:46] become sentient and replace humans. And they were funded by a donation by Vitalik Buterin from Ethereum. It's an interesting story, actually. He donated his dogecoins to Future of Life. They ended up being worth $600 million. Dogecoins? Doge, and then you remember how there was like those other dogecoins, Oh, Shiba Inu. Oh, he had a collection of dogecoins. Yeah, the collection of dogecoins. Apparently, people like
[00:18:14] air-dropped them to him as like a promotional thing. Got it. I don't think he wanted them, so he's like, how do I get rid of them? So, he donates them to Future of Life, and they end up being worth $600 million. So, by this >> Oh my god. almost like this accident, this doomer think tank ends up with a $600 million war chest, and they've been funding these journalism fellowships. They've been funding grants for
[00:18:37] academics to study AI. Obviously, that's going to end up being very negative. And they are funding a lot of these NIMBY organizations that are opposing data centers, because their goal is just to get it to stop. That's their goal. They just want the development to stop. And you can't, I don't think, underestimate how much of an impact this has on the public discourse. But if you look at their actual claims, like for example, the water use claims,
[00:19:01] it's a total hoax. I mean, these data centers do not use a lot of >> Yeah, that was one of the things I wanted to get into, because yeah, compared to a golf course, they're not using that much, or eating walnuts and, you know, almonds in Central California. So, I think it is worth maybe just >> Jason, you're throwing a lot of spaghetti at the wall. Look, you have to remember, who was who was Ida Tarbell, because it's quite interesting in the
[00:19:23] context of this. Ida Tarbell was this American writer. Again, in the Gilded Age, she was part of the muckrakers, which is a group of journalists that were doing investigative research around the abuses of the Industrial Revolution, labor abuses, and the like. And she took on Standard Oil, exactly. If you look at that example, I'm sure that the people in this current generation who have a Tarbell fellowship, what they're living out is
[00:19:48] this desire to tell a story about exploitation and wrong and misdoing. The problem is that these things don't factually hold together. But unfortunately, it adds to the perception problem that we have. And that has been growing. As Sachs said, like so many of these things have been debunked, but it's playing whack-a-mole, Jason, because they'll throw the water thing out. It'll get debunked. Next week will probably something about liquid
[00:20:14] cooling and all the PFAS and forever chemicals. We'll have to debunk that. Then we'll go to like air cooling and how that's a problem. Then we'll go to something else. Eventually, it'll be the upper land grouse. But they're not going to stop. Sachs, how do you Do you have a plan to reframe this to the American public? You're explaining how these bad things are happening and all the evil forces at work behind the scenes.
[00:20:37] >> Well, look, it's not evil forces, but I don't think people understand the extent to which the discourse has been impacted by a few anti-AI tech billionaires. >> and on your podcast. >> I brought it up Hold on. I brought it up on the show and I tweeted about it way back in November. Yeah. And I linked to a writer named Nir Eyal Weizmann, who has analyzed this whole doomer industrial complex. And she has shown
[00:21:00] that there are hundreds of these front organizations. And they're all really just funded by a few big tech billionaires. It's Dustin Moskovitz, Jaan Tallinn, and Vitalik Buterin. Well, when I first described this, people thought that this sounds kind of crazy, like a conspiracy theory. And then sure enough, Semafor comes out with the article explaining that all these journalism jobs are being funded by Future of Life, which was the big
[00:21:24] donation by Vitalik Buterin. So, my point is just you can't underestimate the extent to which a few billionaires who've donated over a billion dollars to this cause have distorted the public debate. And you really see this actually in the relative popularity of AI in the United States versus China. So, there was a recently a poll on they call it AI optimism where they asked people, "Do you believe that the benefits
[00:21:48] of AI will outweigh the harms?" 83% of people in China believe the benefits will outweigh the harms. They're AI optimistic. In the US, it's only 39%. So, again, the discourse has really been affected by a few of these institutions. >> let's say that's all true. Yeah. My question to you is, what's your plan to turn this around and explain to the American people why they should be optimistic about this? What's your plan,
[00:22:15] David Sacks? Well, look, I mean, you're right that we have to flip the narrative around. And I I do think that the tech companies have done a really bad job explaining the benefits. We talked about this with Tucker. I think he brought up some really good points. And you're right, like the the AI companies leaned way too much into the whole job loss narrative as as a way to explain their value prop. And I think it's just either what
[00:22:35] Chamath has said, which is this is about their next fundraising round, or it's a form of laziness because it's easier to describe job loss or job replacement than it is productivity, right? Like multi-factor productivity is a difficult concept to explain. So, I do think that they've played into this narrative, but I think that what we have to do here is just debunk these narratives. Again, no evidence of job loss yet, no evidence of
[00:22:59] the the water problems. I think the electricity issues with data centers are addressable and you have to let the AI companies build their own power. They don't have to connect to the grid. In fact, that's what President Trump has called for for the last 6 months is let the AI companies build their own power so they're not drawing on the grid. So, that problem is easily addressed as well. Talking about the affordability
[00:23:19] problem. But you're right, we have to get the message out how this technology will benefit Americans. And the bottom line is, look, I've always said I'm a techno-realist, not a techno-accelerationist, because at the end of the day, we don't have a choice. I mean, Yeah. China's going to develop the technology if we don't. Okay. So, we don't really have a choice. I You know, I as I said last week, I think the three most pressing
[00:23:39] issues, Chamath, education, housing, and health care. And our industry is in a unique position to use AI to impact all three of those. So, why don't we as an industry collectively explain all the great things going on there. I gave a shout-out to Daniel Ek, Prenovo, Pronova, rather. All these great companies analyzing our blood. There's so much going on in health care that could massively lower the cost, make people's lives better.
[00:24:04] Obviously, in construction, you could have incredible advances. And certainly in education. But we haven't explained those three things. What's your point? Is there anything you can think of to add to that list? >> We have to understand the president and Sachs, they're responsible for shepherding the GDP of America. And as Sachs said, half of American GDP over the next few years is forecasted to come from all of
[00:24:27] the capital that goes in to build out our capabilities in AI. We need this to happen. There's the existential reason why, but there's also a basic economic reason why. So, Jason, the social license comes when off to the side, the private companies start to take this perception problem more seriously. So, to your point, are there things that they can do around housing? Yes. And again, not to front-run, they're actively working on
[00:24:54] something that I think could be transformational. Separately, could they do something on health care? TBD, but we should look at it. Can you do something in education? TBD, but we should look at it. But the point is, if you can have the same companies that are on the forward foot building this revolution for us, recognize that we need to bring some more folks along, take some of their balance sheet capital and invest it to
[00:25:18] create the social license to operate, we will flip this perception on its head. Yeah, I think it's well said. And you know, there was a really interesting I don't know you guys must remember this, the AT&T commercials, you will. Do you remember those? By the way, sorry, that's another great example, Jason. AT&T at the turn of the century, what did they do? They took their capital and they created Bell Labs. Yes.
[00:25:39] >> Bell Labs do? Bell Labs drove all of modern information theory. It was the precursor to the internet. They did so much fundamental research. I want to be clear. I don't think that this is a five-alarm fire. This is very fixable right now. And the litmus test, quite honestly, is in three, four, five, six months, Jason, when you see the trickle of progress if we can get organized, does your perception change? And does
[00:26:02] the language that you use and the tone that you've used over these last 6 months has >> me? No, no, no. I'm actually thinking that you've actually been quite a good early warning system for what a certain percentage of Americans think. And so, in that >> it perfectly. Yes. It's been extremely useful. But now we got to act on [laughter] it. And you have to change your mind. Oh, no, no. My my mind has been very crystal clear. I won't let you
[00:26:27] you know, tell me what >> What I'm saying is my opinion has been job displacements come Jason, let me be clear. We have to earn you changing your mind publicly on this show. If we do that, we're back in a good place. Uh yeah, no, I think that you're saying that in a very condescending way. I have brought it up. I have brought up Okay, you unintentionally >> no. Here, let me try to say it again. Sorry, let me try to say it again. We
[00:26:45] have >> it as if I'm misguided. >> No, no, no. You have a perception. What do you think my perception is? That on the balance, it's a coin flip about whether AI is going to be all good for all people or very good for a small subset of people. That's what I would roughly summarize >> I would say that's accurate. Job displacement >> okay, let me finish. So, hold on. Okay, I understand. So, let me finish. So, if we can execute this plan, again,
[00:27:10] meaning marry all the stuff we're doing on the forward foot within in investing Yeah. with some of the stuff that we also need to do to bring a broader swath of the American population along, Yeah. you will have a different perception if we are successful. And what I'm saying is you've had this one perception, and our goal would be to shift you and people like you. Okay. I I I take it I think it's completely fair. Yeah, I have been
[00:27:37] trying to bring up that as an industry, we have not recognized people's valid concerns about job displacement. That's all I've brought up on this program. I'm not saying I think it's going to be cataclysmic or we can't handle it, but I think if we constantly talk about, "Hey, winning the AI race in China," that's abstract for people. And if we deny the fact that robo-taxis and human robotics are coming, and intelligent people like
[00:28:03] Elon or other leaders are saying, "Yeah, we're we're planning on replacing those jobs," we're doing a terrible job communicating this. And I do think part of this is communication, and part of it is, "Hey, these are valid concerns." So, I think great resolution. Yeah, sure, I'll be the litmus test. Do you guys know what um the motte and bailey fallacy is? No, explain it to the audience. I mean, I think I've heard of
[00:28:22] it, but >> The motte and bailey castle is an early medieval fortification where there's like a very protected area, the keep or the motte, and then the bailey is kind of this looser area that's hard to defend, right? So, what happens is if they need to retreat, they'll go into the motte. Okay. Yeah, Lord of the Rings. >> Right. So, this has become known as a debating trick or fallacy where people will make a really outrageous claim, which is
[00:28:52] they'll they'll basically run to the bailey. And then when you prove that it's false, they'll run back into the motte and say something very unobjectionable. So, in the context of like the AI job loss fallacy, the bailey is people will say, "This is causing massive job loss, massive disruption. It's already here. You can see it." And then when I point out, "Well, actually, if you look at the Yale Budget Lab study or you look now at the
[00:29:17] Vanguard study, there is no job loss," then they'll retreat into the motte and they'll say, "No, no, no, I'm talking about what's going to happen in the future." Which is a position that's fundamentally irrefutable. And then when I point that out, "Well, wait, you just totally changed what you're saying," you're like, "No, no, no, I was only talking about the future." And then as soon as we sort of seem to have agreement, then the people
[00:29:38] in the motte will race out to the bailey and basically saying, "Well, look at what's happening with the Uber drivers or what have you." So, there is this motte and bailey thing happening all the time on this job loss question. And I just want people to be straight about or honest about it, which is look, if your claim is that this will cause job loss in the future, it's true. I can't refute that because none of us can prove what's
[00:29:59] going to happen in the future. But be honest about what's happening today. And in the first 3 years after the launch of AI chatbots, there's been no discernible disruption to the labor market, and the early studies and data are showing wage increases and actually job increases, and there's definitely job increases in blue collars because of the construction boom. This has been our first debate club corner. Every week
[00:30:24] we're going to teach you how to debate better here. No, it's you know, it I I appreciate that. I have really tried to say here like I'm not a doomerist at all. You know, the statistics I look at, you know, I talked [laughter] to Dara. I have actually, sincerely. That's why I don't use I I use displacement. You know, [laughter] I really use refined language. I do. I do. And when I talked to Dara, he told me in areas where robotaxis like