[00:28:22] it, but >> The motte and bailey castle is an early medieval fortification where there's like a very protected area, the keep or the motte, and then the bailey is kind of this looser area that's hard to defend, right? So, what happens is if they need to retreat, they'll go into the motte. Okay. Yeah, Lord of the Rings. >> Right. So, this has become known as a debating trick or fallacy where people will make a really outrageous claim, which is
[00:28:52] they'll they'll basically run to the bailey. And then when you prove that it's false, they'll run back into the motte and say something very unobjectionable. So, in the context of like the AI job loss fallacy, the bailey is people will say, "This is causing massive job loss, massive disruption. It's already here. You can see it." And then when I point out, "Well, actually, if you look at the Yale Budget Lab study or you look now at the
[00:29:17] Vanguard study, there is no job loss," then they'll retreat into the motte and they'll say, "No, no, no, I'm talking about what's going to happen in the future." Which is a position that's fundamentally irrefutable. And then when I point that out, "Well, wait, you just totally changed what you're saying," you're like, "No, no, no, I was only talking about the future." And then as soon as we sort of seem to have agreement, then the people
[00:29:38] in the motte will race out to the bailey and basically saying, "Well, look at what's happening with the Uber drivers or what have you." So, there is this motte and bailey thing happening all the time on this job loss question. And I just want people to be straight about or honest about it, which is look, if your claim is that this will cause job loss in the future, it's true. I can't refute that because none of us can prove what's
[00:29:59] going to happen in the future. But be honest about what's happening today. And in the first 3 years after the launch of AI chatbots, there's been no discernible disruption to the labor market, and the early studies and data are showing wage increases and actually job increases, and there's definitely job increases in blue collars because of the construction boom. This has been our first debate club corner. Every week
[00:30:24] we're going to teach you how to debate better here. No, it's you know, it I I appreciate that. I have really tried to say here like I'm not a doomerist at all. You know, the statistics I look at, you know, I talked [laughter] to Dara. I have actually, sincerely. That's why I don't use I I use displacement. You know, [laughter] I really use refined language. I do. I do. And when I talked to Dara, he told me in areas where robotaxis like
[00:30:48] Waymo are occurring, what they did specifically to deal with this issue was they stopped trying to hire drivers in in Los Angeles and in San Francisco because there are so many Waymos, they don't want them to have a bad experience. So, you know, you wherever in the castle we're talking about this, I do I don't have a a horse in this race. I'm not part of this cabal of, you know, Dustin Moskovitz's people. I just
[00:31:15] know from talking to Uber and Waymo and these other companies and, you know, other companies that are building software, where they're trying to eliminate jobs. And so I'm just bringing that up as a really interesting example. Uber and Waymo, Elon with Tesla, they are actually making plans right now to deal with this displacement of drivers. And they're coming up with new products and services for those drivers.
[00:31:38] So, one of the things they're doing is data labeling at Uber. They they bought a data labeling company, and they're taking the drivers and saying, "Hey, you want to do some data labeling over here?" And actually creating AI jobs for them. So, this is, you know, something that the whole industry is working on. Look, there's going to be a spectrum, right? Some jobs are going to change, some jobs will be eliminated. The
[00:31:56] question is with respect to job eliminations, will that be more than offset by the net new job creations? If you're looking at things like Uber drivers and we go to full self-driving, then obviously there's going to be some category of job loss there. So, I'm not claiming that there's not going to be any elimination of certain types of jobs, but I believe that on the whole, what we're seeing is that when you
[00:32:18] improve the productivity of workers, their wages go up and there's more demand for their labor, not less. That's what the data is showing so far. And I just don't think you get that from the media right now because they are promoting this doomer narrative, and a lot of that is astroturfed by these enormously deep-pocketed organizations that have been funded by a few effective altruists. All right. Topic number two.
[00:32:40] Economic numbers are out. It's a mixed bag. Unemployment rate is up and government payrolls are down, inflation somewhere in between. Let's get into the numbers here. Fun with numbers. Unemployment rate rose to 4.6% from 4.4% in September and 4% in January of 2025 when President Trump took over. US economy added 64,000 jobs in new jobs in November, October. So, about 104,000 job losses, but 162,000 of those job losses came from the
[00:33:14] federal government. You remember the Doge buybacks, our friend of the pod, Elon Musk, was involved in. Those all took effect at the end of September. So, there was a little bit of a balloon payment that occurred. An analyst from Moody's says, quote, "It's a frozen job market. There's not much hiring. There's not much firing happened." That tracks with what I'm seeing on the ground. Meanwhile, inflation came in better than
[00:33:35] expected at 2.7% beating the 3.1% expectation, but still far away from the 2% target for the Fed. Trump gave an 18-minute, very loud, emphatic address to the nation last night. And it was not that we're invading Venezuela. It was mostly him talking about his accomplishments in terms of prices and affordability and a little bit of admonishing Biden. Here's a 20-second clip. >> The last administration and their allies
[00:34:11] in Congress looted our treasury for trillions of dollars, driving up prices and everything at levels never seen before. I am bringing those high prices down and bringing them down very fast. Sacks, your thoughts on the economic data. Well, you're you're painting it as you're painting the economic data as mixed. I don't know how you have a economic report that's better than what we just had today. So, first of all, we
[00:34:36] saw that CPI came in at 2.7% like you said, but the expectations were 3.1%. That's why the market is rallying today in a big way. Core inflation's down to 2.6%. These are significant beats, and this puts core CPI inflation in the US at its lowest level since March of 2021. So, since the whole COVID thing. And if you listen to Kevin Hassett, he said that over the past 3 months, core inflation's been running at 1.6%. So, the trend line
[00:35:04] is going down even further. So, it looks to me like inflation's rolling over, and that's just about a solved problem, which is really good news for what it implies for interest rates because it implies that interest rates are coming down. And that's going to bring down things like mortgage costs and the costs of financing a car payment and things like that. Now, you talk about unemployment. I think the unemployment news is very, very good.
[00:35:27] So, if you look at the data from September to November, the overall employment is down 41,000. But why was that? Private employment was up 121,000, but government employment in the last 2 months has declined by 162,000. So, this is what the media was focused on is they were trying to claim that unemployment was up, but actually it's just that the government jobs decreased. Why did the government jobs decrease?
[00:35:53] Well, you remember that when Doge went in and made their cuts at the beginning of the year, they offered people a buyout as of October 1st. Now, some people took the buyout right away, but a lot more waited until the last possible day, which was October 1st. And that's why you saw this big spike in October unemployment, but those are government jobs that are being cut. And moreover, they're people who voluntarily wanted to
[00:36:17] take the buyout, and they took that deal. So, again, I think the employment picture is looking actually quite good. And if you believe what we believe, you don't want an excessive number of government jobs. And President Trump has presided over, I think, the first decrease in the federal workforce in decades. We've seen a 10.7% decrease in federal workers in 2025. Basically, the number's gone from 2.4 million to 2.15 million. I
[00:36:44] know that'll make Freeberg very happy. But look, what we had during the Biden years is we had 9% inflation. We had a very weak economy. We did have a recession. It was that two-quarter shallow recession. And the media even tried to start redefining what a recession was to avoid those headlines. But what the Biden administration did in response to that is they went hog wild with government hiring. And what we're
[00:37:07] seeing now is inflation is now coming back down, and we're seeing the number of government workers come down to a more reasonable level. And the private economy is making up for it. We still have a relatively historically low unemployment rate. So, those numbers look good. Then you look at the deficit. We've reduced the deficit year over year by 600 billion. That will help bring interest rates down. And then on prices, you got the lowest gas prices
[00:37:35] in 5 years, below $3 nationally. And then finally on wages, real wages are up by over $1,000 on average. And it's $1,300 for factory workers, $1,800 for construction workers. And again, that's a big change from the Biden years where you saw that in real terms, wages went down by about $3,000 on average per worker. So, look, I mean, it seems to me like we're on the cusp of a golden age here. I don't see how the numbers could really
[00:38:05] be better. And then on top of it, again, you've got this AI tailwind, which I think is a huge positive, not a negative, which is adding roughly 2% GDP growth every year because of huge CapEx investment with so far no job loss associated with that. So, I would just say sit back and enjoy this. I think we're headed for a gangbusters 2026. Rates are coming down. Inflation's coming down. And you're also getting tax cuts going into effect next
[00:38:33] year because of the big beautiful bill. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, plus the standard deduction's being beefed up. So, people haven't even felt the benefit of those tax cuts. That's coming in in April. I don't see how things could be much better. Okay. Freeberg, any thoughts here on the data as it's coming in, or Chamath? I'll I'll go to either one of you. Directionally, I think it's really
[00:38:56] positive. You want to see private sector jobs growing. And the shrinkage of government sector jobs has profound impacts not just on the budget, but it starts to create obvious air pockets where you get a little bit more rational regulation. You can deregulate in the appropriate places. You can shift the burden and the responsibility to private industry. So, it's more than just what's in the numbers that I think is positive. I've
[00:39:24] told you this story before, Jason. To do some of the things that I've wanted to do, I'll give you an example. When we started a battery business 5 years ago, when we filed with the DOE, the Department of Energy, these are 700-page reports. You spend millions of dollars, and you hire teams of 50 and 100 people. and what are we trying to do? We're trying to build a battery business in the United States so that we can deleverage
[00:39:47] from the Chinese. To the extent that we could do that a little bit simpler and a little bit easier because there's fewer folks and so the burden goes to state and local regulators which we all already have to deal with. These are just generally good things for productivity. They're generally good things for GDP. It allows us to invest more aggressively in the things that help America so it's trending in the right direction. By the way, Sachs
[00:40:10] didn't mention this explicitly but I'll say it. The other thing in 2026 is you get a bunch of tax cuts that kick in. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, the deductibility of the cost of interest for things like car loans. These are big stimulative actions for the accelerated depreciation. Yeah, big stimulative actions for the United States economy. Yeah, I think what you guys are missing respectfully is that [laughter]
[00:40:37] uh you know, uh Trump promised something completely different. He said starting on day one we will end inflation and make America affordable again to bring down the prices of all goods. And when he was running for election he promised the Americans that he would reduce prices. Now, what's happened is prices have not come down. They've gone up 2.5 to 3.1% but what really matters and I think you guys are doing a great job,
[00:41:03] you know, pro-administration part of the administration. What you're missing is the American people don't believe you. And the American people are experiencing something different and when you look at the uh approval rating Trump's approval rating is at its historical lows and specifically on inflation pull up the silver bullet and meta-analysis there. This is the disconnect and this is why it seemed tone-deaf last night when
[00:41:24] Trump was telling everybody it's great and when you say it's the golden age Americans aren't experiencing that. That's just not what they experience. They are experiencing grocery prices that have continued to go up. And they are experiencing unemployment that's gone up 15%. Whether it's the federal employees, whether it's private sector and you debate the numbers or there's a golden age coming because of no tax on
[00:41:46] tips. These are all talking points. What the American people remember is the Trump administration said prices would go down. Prices have gone up. That jobs and manufacturing maybe all these incredible manufacturing things. Obviously that's going to take years. That has not happened yet. So I hope for the best. I hope inflation goes down to two and I hope they turn this around but the American people don't believe the
[00:42:08] Trump administration and it's a big difference between promising stuff in 2024 and delivering it and here we are in the first year and the delivery that's come in from the Trump administration on inflation and on the economy is not good if you're in the bottom half of society that doesn't own equities. Period. Full stop. So first of all, prices have come down. You look at gas prices are the lowest in five years. They're below $3 nationally.
[00:42:33] Now, I don't know how you want a new administration to come in and literally affect every single change on day one. How do you do that? Oh no, that's just what he said. That's just what he said. >> would start working on it. Hold on, Sachs. I'm not saying it's possible. That's what he said. No, he said he'd start working on it on day one and so he did and look at the results. Inflation's now down to 2.7% way below
[00:42:56] expectations. I don't know how you want a better report than this. Unemployment is very low. The only reason >> the the economic target was 333. 3% GDP growth, 3% deficit to GDP and 3% inflation. They're below 3% inflation. They're above 3% GDP growth and the deficit to GDP is not where it needs to be so cutting is still ahead. But I looked at the budget for 2026 for a number of the departments in the cabinet over the last couple days and they do
[00:43:28] have big cuts that they're trying to implement across the federal government. We're going to be interviewing Scott Bessent tomorrow morning. That'll come out shortly after this episode airs. But this is the catch-up conversation with Scott on how's the 333 plan going but on two of the three metrics Jake Hallett does appear like things are good. I'm not trying to be a spokesperson for the Trump administration but I'd say if you look
[00:43:50] at this just from the raw economic data and the the goals of the administration following that there should be a flow-through in terms of job growth, a flow-through in terms of affordability, in terms of wage growth, all those other sort of economic indicators that actually affect people on Main Street every day. Uh that's all still TBD and the narrative is still to be written but those high-level economic goals are
[00:44:10] still, you know, are starting to kind of fall within the the framework of what they set out to do which is generally good, right? Yeah, I'm just pointing out the disconnect. Again, this is the disconnect that the American people >> No, no, I'm looking at year one. Just year one. We're here at the end of year one. >> implement an agenda. I totally agree. I'm just telling you the American people don't believe the Trump administration
[00:44:30] right now. There's more work to do. That's the disconnect. >> Well, the data that came out today is looking awesome. By the way, that Vanguard report that I mentioned that also exposes the AI job loss hoax. It also has a new economic assessment for next year. It's projecting 3% growth for next year which I think is conservative and an improved labor market outlook for 2026 and it says the most robust improvement will come in the second half