[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to your favorite podcast, the number one podcast, in fact, in the entire universe, the All-In podcast with your besties. We're all here. It's the original quartet. Everybody loves when the core four are here, and we have a docket for you today. Guys, we got to start out with Bernie Sanders. I know this is becoming a bit repetitive, but AI is the topic. >> [laughter] >> We reached a new level of retardation
[00:00:28] this week that we cannot avoid. Bernie Sanders has a major de-sell pitch, a moratorium on new AI data centers. Here's his argument. Number one, the billionaires are pushing AI because they want more money and power. Number two, there's going to be massive unemployment, and he cites Gates, Dario, Elon saying that AI would replace most jobs. Number three, he uh has an interesting point, actually. AI is harmful to kids because
[00:00:59] it decreases social interaction. Actually, we kind of agree with that one, I think, across the board. But here's his pitch, Sachs. His pitch is >> You want your kids using these chatbots? I don't think so. >> to my kids about it. Okay. We'll >> And >> it. Look, if you actually look at the data, if you look at what kids are doing, it's so much more interactive and engaging for them to talk to their friends on Snap or to watch videos on
[00:01:25] TikTok. Those things are super engaging, whereas doing research on AI chatbot is just it's way less engaging, and you see this in the data. So, I'm not saying there's not an issue there. You want to pay attention to the way that these technologies are shaping the minds of young kids, but I think uh people get a little bit confused. What they're really talking about is social media, and then they attribute all the ills of social
[00:01:47] media over to these new AI chat apps, and they are a little different. You know, when I talk to when I ask my kids like how much do you use these things? Are they addictive? They said, "No, they're more just really useful." It's like Google. It's like I couldn't do >> I couldn't do school without it. Yeah, there's two pieces here. One, using AI to be smarter and to learn stuff and ask questions, absolutely fantastic,
[00:02:11] phenomenal. I think we'll all agree on that. There is, and I don't know if this is actually what he was referencing, but there's character AI and a and a long tail of spicy chats where people, we talked about getting one-shotted and these para-social relationships. That's I think what he's referring to, but maybe I'm reading it wrong. But let's get into it here. His pitch is that we need to slow down so that,
[00:02:36] quote, democracy can catch up, and that Congress should put a moratorium on new data centers. That's his solution. He got roasted, obviously, on social media for this. It's the most absurd, I think, solution to, you know, what are valid concerns. Friend of the pod, Ro Khanna, who represents Silicon Valley, he I guess supported a bit, and then he replied to me and says his concerns are not as acute and that he just wants to
[00:03:05] make sure we use renewable energy, which I guess is, you know, a fine position to have. Polymarket put up a little uh market here. AI data center moratorium pass before 2027. Yeah, we'll see if that comes true or not, but uh hey, Sachs, you are our SGE. Sachs, our SGE, this is your time to shine. >> [laughter] >> You have framed the AI debate as we can't lose to China. Bernie framed it as not letting the billionaire class get
[00:03:34] more power and money by eliminating American jobs. And last week, on this very program, Tucker framed it as what Americans going to get out of this, right? That that was the framing, you know, as of December of 2025. So, here's your chance, Sachs. Why should Americans, who have some concerns about losing their jobs, care about beating China? Why should they care about that, Sachs? Why should they care about beating
[00:03:58] China? Because AI is a profound technology that's going to have huge economic and national security implications. And the thing that Bernie gets wrong is that he can't stop the progress. I mean, he can't stop China from making progress. We can stop progress in the US, but it's not going to stop China from advancing these technologies. A lot of this is just math. And just because we stop doesn't mean China's going to stop. So, this
[00:04:24] would be the biggest own goal ever if we took our leadership in the AI race and just handed it to China. But look, I appreciate Bernie's honesty in a way because he is actually telling the truth about what he wants. And I remember just a week ago, when President Trump signed an executive order to advance a national AI framework, a lot of critics and a lot of Democrats were saying this was a violation of states' rights, and we need
[00:04:47] to support the states in regulating AI. And here, Bernie is acknowledging that this is not about states' rights because he's saying that there needs to be a moratorium on new data centers even if the states want them. So, he doesn't support states' rights, either. He just wants all the progress to stop. And I think this is really the truth of the matter is that all this talk about states' rights or affordability, it's
[00:05:11] all a red herring, and what's really going on is there's a large and growing contingent of people who just want all the progress to stop. But again, we can't stop China from making progress. So, all they would be doing is ceding leadership in this AI race to China. What people like Bernie really want is they want the US to become like Europe. You know, Europe has half the share of global GDP that they had 30 years ago.
[00:05:33] And that's because of their hostility towards innovation and technological progress, and that's kind of where Bernie wants us to be as he wants us to go down the the path of Europe. And the reason he says is because, God forbid, someone gets rich. Well, look, capitalism sometimes results in the unequal distribution of wealth, but socialism always results in the equal distribution of poverty and misery. And if the US stops developing AI, we hand
[00:06:00] this leadership to other countries, it will make the United States poorer. It will make the American people poorer, and it will cede our leadership globally. We will not be the preeminent power in the world anymore. Okay. >> So, I'll stop there. No, no, it's great. Thank you, SGE, David Sachs, of Bloomberg. [laughter] There seems to be a couple of conversations. Unfortunately, we weren't here last week, but we had a really nice
[00:06:25] uh visit from our pal Tucker, and we talked about this. He seemed to think there was a bit of a communication problem with selling to the public the value of these technologies. Do you agree with that, and what do you think's going on here in terms of the cross conversations? One group wants to de-sell, has some concerns, environmental, you know, job displacement, etc. And then, there is there an issue where the China beating China doesn't resonate
[00:06:52] with the American populace. You've been harping on about the rise of socialism for four plus years on this very podcast. So, from where you sit, what's the actual disconnect in these multiple conversations that are going on concurrently and and seemingly coming to a head here at the end of 2025? Well, if you ask any of the politicians that are making these proclamations about the, quote, tech barons and trying to
[00:07:15] actually talk to them about what is the AI technology delivering, what is it not delivering, you kind of typically hit a wall pretty quickly. It's very hard for folks to articulate what is actually happening. There's a tremendous amount of capital being put at risk against infrastructure to build out the capacity for many companies, the entire economy, the entire industry to deliver AI tools. There isn't an aggregation
[00:07:39] at this stage of value creation with the exception of Nvidia, which has really got this $3 trillion market cap creation that's happened in the last couple years. Peter Thiel said this best. He's like, "Look at all the money that's going into AI. There's really only one company that's making any money, and that's Nvidia." Like, at this point, the jury's still out. We don't even know what AI is. It's sort of like when the
[00:07:58] internet was happening, you know, everyone thought these fiber optic switch companies were going to make all the money. Turns out that was wrong. It was the end applications that made all the money, and they competed in many different markets from Google to Amazon to Uber. You can go down the list of all the beneficiaries of the core infrastructure technology of the internet that was built out. So, what is really going on? Well, AI is the new
[00:08:20] lightning rod for fear and for divisiveness that ultimately breeds compliance and control, which is where these politicians are trying to drive the the populace and the voting conditions in the United States. And that's what's going on right now. There's a lot of fear about, "Oh, putting this data center in my town is going to do X or Y or Z" with no real conversation about the truth of that matter. There's a lot
[00:08:43] of fear about wealth creation being aggregated in the hand of a few, when, as we saw with the internet, it benefited the many. And that fear-mongering is a very similar tactic that we've seen in the prior generations where policies were misstated, fear was used, and then voting control allowed folks to come to power that were looking for power. So, I think it's just the lightning rod at the moment. >> Okay, Chamath, what's your take on this
[00:09:09] big picture of what's going on here? I think it's important to understand that politicians have an incredible sense of self-preservation. So, the question is, why would Bernie Sanders think he would not look totally foolish in putting that video out? And the reason it went viral is not because it sounded so crazy. It was that to some faction and percentage of people, it sounded rational and reasonable. And the problem that highlights is that
[00:09:38] we have a huge perception issue in AI. We have a handful of companies. All the PR that you see from those handful of companies is a bunch of circular deal-making. It's a bunch of capital that flows from one to the other. It causes these stocks to go up, of which a small percentage of people benefit. And at the tail end of it, it's accompanied by a completely different set of articles that everybody also reads about this sort of Damocles that's about
[00:10:07] to fall on their head. Whether it's electricity prices, or whether it's their jobs, or whether it's the jobs of their children, or the quality of their education. So, we have a big perception problem. So, the question at hand is how do we fix it? How do we get back to the place where a video talking about stopping all progress would seem as laughable as it should be. And I think you can go back to the Gilded Age, and you can ask the question
[00:10:35] how did the industrialists leaders of that era respond through that 1880 to 1920 age of industrialization, when you had all of this technological upheaval accompanied by a handful of people with incredible success. Right? Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, Henry Ford. What did they do? And I think the lesson we can borrow from them is we now need to be on the forward foot as an industry. Enough of the stupid haircuts, dumb
[00:11:07] watches, ugly clothes, ostentatious displays of wealth. We've all done it. I've been guilty of it. It has to stop. Absolutely stop. And instead, we need to start to use a percentage of the balance sheets of these companies in order to benefit as many Americans as possible. That is the absolute minimum. Andrew Carnegie built 2,500 libraries. The idea was, as he built the railroads, you're going to scale GDP, you're going
[00:11:35] to scale education and knowledge. Those libraries are artifacts that allowed people to feel a dividend from that Industrial Revolution. John D. Rockefeller took all of his wealth and invested in institutions and universities. Henry Ford specifically focused on wages. We need to self-organize better, and we need to be more on the forward foot. We need to start doing things that are practically measurable by tens of millions of
[00:11:59] American citizens. And it starts to beat back the perception problem that we have. Because Sachs pointed out last week, the data does not support the misperception. But the problem is, and Sachs and I were talking about this last week, the misperception is gaining steam. And so, I think we need to use these tools that we have provide some more practical benefits that every man, woman, and child can feel. Otherwise, this thing is going to
[00:12:27] build, and you'll see crazier and crazier versions of this Bernie Sanders video. All right, I think it's well said. And, you know, as I said last week, I think beating China does not matter to the average American. It's below their line, Chamath, I think in many ways. What they care about is jobs. They care about their kids getting jobs. And yeah, they care about costs. They care about inflation. They care about
[00:12:51] energy costs going up. Our industry has done a terrible job of explaining how this benefits the average American. And they're seeing all these headlines about, as you mentioned, all the cross deal booking and all these stocks going up. Half the country doesn't own stocks, so they're not participating in it. And they're not blind to seeing self-driving cars, or seeing their kids having a hard time getting a job. And they're hearing
[00:13:14] everybody talk about job displacement, and that's a valid concern. People are scared, and our industry is scaring them, I think, by not meeting where they are. And then, beating China, respectfully, is important, Sachs. Super important. I can intellectually agree with you on that. But, if you lose your job, and your kids can't get a job, that's that's that's existentially, yes. It's not my child needs a job next year. They're
[00:13:41] graduating from school with $100,000 in debt, and my energy bill's going up, and my grocery bills are going up, and they haven't come down. That's what Americans are experiencing. And yeah, maybe giving I think you also made an interesting point there, too, about the libraries. The war with China is existential. Because if we can keep it on the battlefield of AI and intellectual and economic prowess, we have a very good chance of winning.
[00:14:05] If it devolves, and all of a sudden becomes a different kind of battle, that's bad for everybody, especially our children and our children's children. So, we need to win the current game on the field. But in order to do that, we need to change these misperceptions. We need to start showing tactical artifacts that show that this is a dividend that can benefit everybody. And we need to start now. I'm just putting it out there. We
[00:14:29] have so much cash on the balance sheets of these companies, Wall Street values it at zero. If you look at the enterprise value of any of these companies, and you do a sum of the parts, nobody cares about that cash. So, we need to start using that cash more effectively. What's the equivalent of the library metaphor here for you, Chamath? Do you have any ideas? I'm not going to front-run what's being worked on, except to say
[00:14:52] that the leaders of these companies have gotten the message. They are working on a whole host of solutions. And again, we're fighting misperception, which is the complicated battle, but it's winnable, and I think you're going to start to see stuff in the new year. Yeah, I would say education's at the top of that list. Sachs, your thoughts here as we wrap on this first topic. I'm not sure whether to address the particular hoaxes, or the
[00:15:16] fact that there are there's a larger effort here to try and discredit AI, and get AI development to stop entirely. Let's talk about some of these particular hoaxes. So, on the job loss claim, I feel like I do this every week now, but there's a new study from Vanguard, where they analyze job growth and wage growth in occupations that are highly exposed to AI automation versus all occupations. And they find that both job growth and
[00:15:48] wage growth is higher, not lower, in the occupations that are exposed to AI. So, if you look at job growth in occupations exposed to AI, it's 1.7% compared to 0.8% for other. For wage growth, it's 3.8% versus 0.7% for other. So, what you see here is something maybe is counterintuitive, but it makes sense to me, which is as you make workers more productive, the value of their labor increases, not decreases, and they end up getting paid
[00:16:20] more, and you want to hire more of them. So, this is a huge narrative violation. Again, this is coming from Vanguard. And it's showing that AI productivity is good for workers. This follows on the heels of that study from Yale Budget Lab, which I talked about in previous show, that it said there's no discernible disruption to the job market based on 33 months of data after the launch of ChatGPT. Now, I understand that you can
[00:16:48] make predictions as to the future that this state's going to change, that there will be AI job loss, but what I'm saying is that if you look at the data so far, there is no AI job loss. Quite the opposite, it's job growth and job gains. By the way, we have a 2% tailwind to GDP growth right now. That's coming from this AI boom, this CapEx boom that's happening. And so, this is, I think, a very good thing for the US economy. Now,