[00:56:01] nearly as much. She lost a few kilos, which just helped her a lot. Walking and She's a little deaf, unfortunately, but she can see. Dogs are the best. Dogs are the best. Here's my Here's Here's my other photo of the dog that Chamath hates. Pull it up just so you can see what it >> This is Mar- Last Last Christmas at Nat's birthday dinner on the 26th, which is her birthday, Marshall Freeberg jumped on the table starting eating all
[00:56:25] of the pistachios and the nuts. Ruined all of them. Slobbered everywhere. All David Freeberg was like, "Oh, look at that." Allison Freeberg was like, "Marshall Freeberg!" They They have no control over what's going on in the house. Here, pull this photo up, Nick. This is a medical issue Marshall Freeberg's been dealing with. He wakes up with irrecoverable erections. So, he can't [laughter] walk. What? Pull this up.
[00:56:49] Irrecoverable. Oh my god. >> walk. So, Nick, you got to blur this out when you >> [laughter] >> Whoa! Dude's packing. So, this little guy, he weighs like 8 lb. >> that erection? >> He has these erections and well, the doctors say like we just got to wait till if it ends up staying for too long, there's going to be a surgery, but like right now he's okay. But he can't move when he gets them and he's stuck. And he'll just sit there
[00:57:12] >> [laughter] >> unable to move for like 20 minutes like with his erections. Same gave Chamath some of my rose sparks and he had a similar thing happen. He was frozen. There's a There's a Brian Johnson joke in here, but That is a problem. Yeah. How's Moose doing, J Cal? Moose is my special guy. Oh, here he is, Sachs. Is that your dog, Sachs? This is the Moose. The Moose is trying to keep him off buddy. Oh, man.
[00:57:36] This is my buddy. Looks like a good boy. What are you doing? >> [laughter] >> What's he chewing on? I think he's got a puck. Look at that out of your mouth. Come on, get that out of your mouth. He is such a little love buddy. Such a LITTLE LOVE BUG. >> [laughter] >> IT'S LIKE A GREMLIN. HE LOVES It's great It's great to see you so in control, You're such a natural dog guy, Jason. He's a disciplinarian. This dog loves food. He really loves to
[00:58:11] wrestle. Does he headbutt you? >> [laughter] >> The dog whisperer. Moose, take it easy, buddy. I know. He loves to wrestle, this dog. He's heavy, right? He's Well, we he added about 4 or 5 lb cuz he wasn't eating all that much when we got him and then we realized he needs a little bit of extra food. So, we gave him a little more food and then he became a little less um grumpy. And then he just we take him for like
[00:58:39] maybe three 1-mile walks a day on the ranch. Totally fine. If he misses a walk, dog's got way too much energy. So, he's not He's a ranch dog, not a city dog. Yeah, no, I know. I told you. Yeah, he needs to run. When he doesn't run, you got a problem. All right, let's keep going through the docket here. Uh that's dog corner. That's canine corner. What do you guys think? That's a good corner. Canine corner is the best
[00:59:02] corner. But how crazy is that one like one in a billion's got to be that this dog lands up next to me. It's just the craziest thing. Anyway. And uh yeah, there's no cat corner here. Cats are horrible. Shout out to our friends at Waymo for eliminating the cat problem in San Francisco. [laughter] I mean, that's just That was the greatest update to their software ever. If they can eliminate more cats, [laughter]
[00:59:22] What's What's that paradox that the AI has where it's like, "Do I hit the dog It's LIKE THE CAT PROBLEM. JUST GO FOR THE DOG. GO FOR THE CAT. Just go for the cat. >> Absolutely. You could get somebody there on time or you could get them there 30 seconds late and take out a cat. Take out the cat. Less stray cats. That's a horrible. I shout out to our cat ladies listening to the pod. There's And what do you think many cat ladies listen to this
[00:59:45] pod? I think Zero. Oh, there are a few. Are there a few? Yeah, they Here from on They're on Blue Sky talking about Oh god, I had a joke. I'm not going to do it. All right, according to a Reuters report, Freeberg China has built a prototype of ASML's EUV machine. Hey, if this is true this report, it's it could have profound impact on the AI race that we talked about. For those of you who don't know, ASML is the Dutch company worth $400 billion,
[01:00:17] 22nd largest market cap in the world. And they are the only company that makes EUV machines, also called lithography. It stands for extreme ultraviolet. That's how you make H100s. Here's a photo of one of these giant machines. They cost $250 million to make and they take 6 months to make. Filled with all kinds of important parts, Carl Zeiss lenses, etc. Since 2018 these machines have been limited for sale by the Dutch. Why? Why can't China
[01:00:50] buy these machines? Well, in 2018 Trump's Secretary of State Mike Pompeo put pressure on the Dutch to impose export controls on China and later that same year they did. So, according to Reuters in this news story, Freeberg China used former ASML engineers allegedly to reverse engineer the machines. Reuters has pointed out that the machine in China has not yet produced any working chips. It's a prototype. The CCP is targeting 2028
[01:01:24] for working chips. Some sources say maybe 2030 is more likely. You've been talking about China lithography on the show. We can play the Chariots of Fire music that Freeberg insists we play when he does his victory lap, Chamath. Here's his victory lap, episode 224. Last year China announced and began a $37 billion investment in developing their own 3 nanometer chip technology. China made a claim that this investment they had
[01:01:53] made was starting to pay off and they had developed their own EUV system. And their big semiconductor company is called the Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation or SMIC in China. They launched a 7-nanometer chip with Huawei in their Mate 60 Pro, which is sort of like their iPhone competitor in China. And so they're proclaiming that they've already got this EUV technology. From what I understand and
[01:02:16] Sachs would know better than I, it sounds like there was a lot of reverse engineering and workaround of existing technology in order to deliver that system. >> Who do you think has the best chance of challenging Nvidia? >> My early prediction for 2026 is Huawei, where I think that there's lithography technology that exists in China that is not publicly discussed that is going to be deployed in Huawei and all these fabs
[01:02:41] that they're building in mainland China. >> So, announcements 2026, impact 2027? Probably fair. They have first first on All-In. Freeberg, congratulations on your weekly victory lap here. >> I don't I don't I honestly don't think that the Reuters story is necessarily news cuz I think it's a little bit of a narrow scope in trying to describe what happened, which is that they quote stole ASML technology cuz scientists are
[01:03:03] working on it. That's not really the full scope of what's been going on in China for a number of years. And it really understates the technological progress that China's independently made in using other systems to try and achieve lithography parity. So, if you go back a number of years, the current kind of investment vehicle is actually Chinese banks put capital into a fund that's roughly $48 billion US dollars,
[01:03:29] which is actually what's called the National Integrated Circuit Industry Investment Fund Phase Three. So, there was Phase One, which started in 2014, which focused on manufacturing. So, developing fabs with groups like SMIC. Phase Two was stood up in 2019, which focused primarily on design and materials. And then this Phase Three fund was established in 2024 explicitly to pivot to what they call choke points
[01:03:56] or bottlenecks in the manufacturing process. And state media has confirmed the existence of this Phase Three fund and the intentionality of the Phase Three fund to try and replicate lithography technology. Couple of months ago, if you pull up the link there, here's a publication on this paper. So, this is the leading research group out of China that's been backing into lithography technology using AI-driven systems. They published this paper,
[01:04:23] which was a very good summary of where they are in July. Was this in Nature? No, it was in Light: Science & Applications. And this paper is called Advancements and Challenges in Inverse Lithography Technology: A Review of Artificial Intelligence-Based Approaches. If you read into the paper and then you read the other publications from this particular research team at Tsinghua University, they have made a number of
[01:04:47] breakthroughs in using AI to try and reestablish alternative systems in the traditional Zeiss optics and other control systems that are used in the ASML platform. And the way that they've done it, I won't spend too much time on it, but there's a bunch of neural networks that they've used, trained, and have made discoveries from, including doing things like working with suboptimal optics, meaning you can have
[01:05:10] optics that have a degree of diffusion. And then how do you actually recreate 3-nanometer printing techniques or 3-nanometer masks by having shadowy effects accounted for in the AI. So, you almost like assume that the shadowy effects are going to come out and you print differently than you otherwise would. You don't need the degree of precision that you need and you don't necessarily need to go get the Zeiss
[01:05:29] optics. There was another paper that was published early this year by another Chinese research team that actually demonstrated how they did use AI to discover a novel method for doing optics. So, there was a very broad and well-funded effort that's been underway for over a decade, but just in the last couple of years with artificial intelligence-based approaches, they've made a series of breakthroughs. It is
[01:05:50] very likely the case that Huawei already has a lithography system that they'll be putting into production and this is why I kind of talked about it when we were in Vegas and pointed out earlier this year. But I again, I think Reuters just sort of maybe caught on to some narrow segment, but this is a bigger story and a bigger set of progress that's been made over quite some time. >> Ramifications, Sachs? Here and and what you're thinking,
[01:06:13] obviously you've talked a bunch about, "Hey, let's sell our stack in there." And they're clearly working on their own stack. What What's the What's the ramification of this if it's true? Well, I've never supported selling EUV lithography to China. It is probably >> the stack of H100, whatever the previous Nvidia stack was, yeah. EUV lithography, these machines that are made by ASML is probably our single biggest advantage in
[01:06:38] the AI race because they're the only machines that are capable of creating, say, 2 to 3 nanometer chips, semiconductors. And it's sort of the perfect export control because there's only one company that makes these machines. Like you showed, they're gigantic, they're expensive. So, if you think about like trying to put an export control on a commodity, there'd be a lot of ways to circumvent it because there's a lot of sources for
[01:07:01] a commodity, but in this case there's literally only one company that makes these machines. So, it's been a tremendous advantage, I'd say, for the West that we have EUV lithography. I'm not surprised that China is trying to reverse engineer it. It's kind of the obvious thing to do. No advantage is forever. It does seem likely that at some point they'd be able to figure out how to do it. So, I think that this article
[01:07:28] is not altogether a surprise in that sense. I mean, I'm sure that China is trying really, really hard to reverse engineer this. In the meantime, however, they've also made substantial progress with DUV lithography. So, the previous generation of lithography before EUV was DUV. E is extreme, D is deep. In any event, DUV was supposed to sort of top out at, say, 14-nanometer chips. And China was able to push the technology to get to 7
[01:07:57] nanometer and now to five. So, they've been able to get a lot further using DUV lithography than anyone thought possible. And that is why the Huawei chips, the Ascend chips are They're not as good as our chips, but they're serviceable. And they've been able to use their prowess in networking to string more of them together. You have the Cloud Matrix 384 technology where Huawei will string together 384 of their Huawei Ascend
[01:08:23] chips into a rack and that will perform comparable to an Nvidia rack, but using a lot more power. So, the bottom line is China's been able to create a lot of these workarounds to our restrictions, but if they figured out how to reverse EUV, that would be, I'd say, a blow because it is a real advantage for us. But I'm not convinced that this Reuters story is the the full picture. I think it's just a data point.
[01:08:50] Chamath, any thoughts here? If you want a very short summary of how the last generation of chips work, the best way to think about this is that the most profitable and valuable chips to date have taken a very compute-centric approach. That's why we've needed these ultra-advanced process nodes. But the reality is that in a world of infinite inference, let's say, the next generation of silicon will not take the same compute-heavy approach and
[01:09:18] will probably rely on a much more memory-centric architecture that uses a lot of SRAM. The value of that is that you can produce these things, as Sachs said, at 14 nanometer at 75. All of these process nodes that are much less advanced, that I actually think is the future. So, in a weird way, if they steal this, which I think we should assume they've already stole it, quite honestly, and they figured it out. The question is how bad is it? That's
[01:09:46] the really important question. And the thing about a more memory-centric approach for AI inference or these next generation forms of silicon, it demands a lot more of compilers. It demands a lot more of the software. I still think that's where we are light-years ahead. So, I don't think it's the end of the world, and we're still in a very good place. But, it is bad. Friedberg, weren't we supposed to uh start onshoring with the
[01:10:11] Chips Act and maybe get trending towards having this production ability in America? And obviously, that's been really hard to do. And China and the relationship with Taiwan seems to be and and the possibility that they actually take over Taiwan in a military fashion has been this existential concern or even short-term concern. Maybe it's better way to say it. The I think the biggest security implication to consider at this moment is that both
[01:10:41] the US and mainland China are onshoring uh manufacturing, and that makes Taiwan less of a strategic point of interest for the United States and for the United States industry. Maybe one of the ways to think about the positive aspect of what is going on, which is maybe call it the Balkanization of generally manufacturing, but specifically semiconductor manufacturing in this case, is reduced security concerns. So, there's no longer this
[01:11:05] flash point perhaps in Taiwan. If China did invade Taiwan and the US had fab manufacturing, we're less likely to want to defend Taiwan. And frankly, if China has fabs on mainland, do they really need to invade Taiwan? What's the economic interest in doing so? >> Yeah, that's kind of where I was going with it. >> But, if they also wanted to jump-start, Friedberg, they could just go to Taiwan and take the machines. Like, is that
[01:11:26] actually the plan? Like, I I don't know what the CCP's plan is. I think that's a pretty um simple statement to make. I think just going to Taiwan is probably a lot more complicated than Of course it is. My point is if this if this was super existential to get those chips for China and they go to Taiwan and they have to then they've reverse-engineered the machines by default. >> we we need to recognize we keep using
[01:11:48] the term reverse engineering as if ASML is the only way to do this, and it is not. If you read their papers, and you read what's coming out, there are alternative production manufacturing methods and systems that are being developed in China that not only maybe provide parity to ASML, but get ahead of ASML. And I think this is really important to understand. China is not just in a catch-up race, they're in a
[01:12:09] primacy race. And they are trying to develop primacy in lithography technology, which will give them primacy in manufacturing, which will give them primacy in AI, which will give them economic leverage over the planet. And that is very critical for us to understand. This is not about stealing data from ASML. Like, no one gives a if you're sitting in China and you're thinking about I've got the world's best scientists or some of the
[01:12:28] world's best scientists, and I'm giving them the resources and I'm giving them the mandate to go solve this problem. The government, as I mentioned last year, put $40 billion against this problem and said go figure it out. And these guys at Tsinghua are publishing some groundbreaking research on how to do it. But, it's easier to catch up or to copy than to innovate, right? So, if you're China, the first thing you want to do is