[00:41:38] it's kind of a bad case of u main character syndrome where uh you know where like the regulators think they're the main characters in this. No, look, the regulators are the supporting players. The main characters always have to be the entrepreneurs. It's got to be the innovators. That's how you unlock innovation. When the when you start to see yourself, I mean, the the regulators and the policy makers as the as the main
[00:42:02] characters, that's not a great recipe for innovation. And I think just just a minor point on the on the AI stuff in Europe that you know the EUAI act which has been so detrimental to to the AI ecosystem here here in Europe was passed before chat GPT was even invented and that shows the challenge here. You're you're you're believing that you can solve some kind of problem or some you're solving something but the end of
[00:42:25] the day innovation is moving so much more quickly and ultimately that that rule makes no sense now in a world of of frontier models large language models and they have to sort of edit it. So, let me push back before we go and ask you to identify any risks or threats or downside risks in all of this. What should we be worried about if anything with regard to AI usage? >> Well, I I think there are Orwellian scenarios uh of AI that I think we
[00:42:55] should be concerned about. And again, I I tend to think that those scenarios were described by George Orwell, not by, you know, James Cameron and the Terminator. And specifically, it's misuse of AI by government. I do think that AI could be used as a tool to um surveil, to censor, to even potentially brainwash the population. This is why the administration has taken such a firm stance against what it's called woke AI,
[00:43:22] which I almost think that that name maybe trivializes the magnitude of the problem we're talking about. We're talking about AI having a political bias built into it. Um, and it the bias can be so subtle that people don't even necessarily notice over time, but it has a huge impact on what people are allowed to learn and think and know and what you know children learn. And so I think it's very important that we try to make sure
[00:43:46] that AI was politically unbiased. Um there just in this regard, one of the things that we were so concerned about with that Biden executive order on AI that we were sended in the first week is that it had 20 pages of language on DEI and it was promoting this idea that AI models need to build in a DEI layer. Well, you know, this is how you ended up with, you know, the the the black George Washington uh you know, story where that
[00:44:15] the first version of of uh Gemini came out and it was, you know, it was basically rewriting history to serve a current political agenda of DEI. And um you know that that was in a way that that that case of bias was so ludicrous that everyone kind of laughed at it. But it gives you a sense of what could happen if you start to build the the bias into AI and you know that same you know so-called trust and safety
[00:44:44] apparatus that was starting to be built into social media sites as a way to censor and deplatform and shadowban. You could see that being built into AI models as a way to control uh the the public discourse in in a very serious way. And I think that, you know, President Trump again just put a total halt to that, you know, rescended that. But it was also we also um President Trump signed an executive order saying
[00:45:11] that the federal government would not procure politically biased AI. So look, on a first amendment basis, if an AI company wants its AI to be biased in some direction, they probably have a first amendment right to do that. But we have as the federal government have the discretion not to buy that software and we've said that we won't. So, I feel very good that during President Trump's uh term in office for the next three
[00:45:37] years, this idea of Orwellian AI is not going to be a problem. But I do worry that at some point in the future, if you had a different regime in Washington, you know, if the federal government started to pressure AI companies to build in this political bias, that would be a very serious threat, I think, to to our freedoms. It's a it's a great point to make. Before we wrap up real quick on jobs, can either of you explain what
[00:46:03] Elon Musk is is saying about the impact of AI said we're not going to need to work. You know, the the AI AI is going to do it all. I I just I'm trying to understand what he's saying that it's we're going to go on holiday. Um jobs are going away and AI is going to do everything. Well, Elvon's a friend of mine and um I'll I'll uh I I'll disagree with him slightly on this, but um but but let me just the his comment about the the job loss
[00:46:32] obviously is what gets all the headlines, but at the same time he's saying that he's also saying that in this future there's going to be so much abundance that everyone's going to have what they want and there's not going to be any money. So people people leave out that part of the story and they just report Elon says everyone's going to lose their jobs. No, we're talking about a radically different future. It could
[00:46:52] be the future. It's kind of described in Star Trek, you know, where like there is no money because we have everything. Look, I I think that, you know, Elon is directionally correct about the future. I think we are heading toward toward uh towards a world of much greater abundance, rising living standards for everybody, greater productivity. I think that will lead to rising wages. I don't think it's going to put everyone out of
[00:47:15] work. I don't think that's going to happen. Uh but again, the timelines matter a lot. And you know, getting to a world with no money is not something that's going to happen in the next 5 years. >> And of course, Michael, this is helping us um in terms of longevity and living longer, right? In terms of the impact on science. >> Totally. I think generally the the abundance story extends itself well into into, you know, health care and
[00:47:39] everywhere else that and and just quality of life. So, good things ahead. I think >> we'll leave it there. Michael Katzios and David Saxs, thanks so much. >> Thank you.