[00:00:00] Great to see everyone and I'm thrilled to be able to talk about the issue of the day and that is artificial intelligence and AI in our world. Um David, Michael, I'd love you to talk about what where we are right now in terms of the pursuit to be the number one uh lead AI country. How are we doing, David? >> I think we're doing great. Um Maria, last year uh President Trump gave a major AI policy speech. is in July and
[00:00:28] he declared that the United States had to win the AI race. Uh he he had first of all declared that we were in one. Uh and I think his speech was reminiscent of when President Kenny declared that we were in a space race and had to win that race. I think since then what you've seen is that American companies have only innovated more. You're seeing all sorts of really incredible products being released all the time. I think
[00:00:52] that um American uh uh AI models, chips, um data centers only just keep um getting better and better. And so I feel very good about the American position in this AI race. Certainly we have some very uh you know competent uh and formidable competitors. Um China obviously has a lot of very smart people working in this area. But I do think that uh just what you see from uh American companies in Silicon Valley right now is really incredible. And yet
[00:01:21] there are still so many questions about all of the spending underway uh to build this out with regard to data centers. And of course the question keeps coming up are we spending too much. Will we get the return on investment? How do you see that? >> I I think that we will. Um I think that the reason why you're seeing this huge infrastructure buildout is because the demand is ultimately there. I I know a lot of people worry and about whether
[00:01:47] this could be like a dot situation. And remember where we had the whole fiber build out in the late '9s and then we had a doc crash. The difference here is that uh in the late '9s and early 2000s we had a a problem known as dark fiber where you had this fiber buildout and then it didn't get used. There's no such thing as a dark GPU right now. Every GPU that's being put in a data center is getting used. Uh and it's being used to
[00:02:10] generate tokens and that's to power the this new generation of AI chat bots or coding assistants. uh and there's just been some releases in the last couple months on the coding front that you know it's if you're following what develop software developers are saying they're saying it's mind-blowing it's completely revolutionizing their industry so demand for tokens just increases and that increases the demand for this data
[00:02:33] center buildout that we're seeing so I don't think it's going to stop anytime soon and just last year this infrastructure buildout added about uh 2% to the GDP growth rate and I and that's what helped propel us to this you know four to 5% % growth rate and I think you're going to see something similar this year. >> Well, it is certainly leading growth, Michael. Um, and I'm so happy to be able to get this conversation going with both
[00:02:56] of you who are really leading this. David, thank you. And Michael, thank you. Same questions for you, Michael. Assess where we are right now on AI. >> I I think just a reminder for the group for those who haven't been tracking as closely as we do every day. The the plan really had essentially three pillars and it talked about how one, how can the US continue to out innovate our competitors? two, how can we drive the
[00:03:16] infrastructure build that we need to support um this this AI revolution? And three, how do we actually share with the world or export our great American technology? And for each of those three pillars, there was quite a lot of actions that the federal government has taken to drive that forward. Um, and I think I think we're pretty proud to say that we've made, I think, pretty good progress on on all three. Um just
[00:03:36] focusing a little bit on the innovation one you were talking about earlier. I think the the the the the core um insight that we've always had about how you drive this innovation is you have to have a regulatory environment that allows this technology to be developed and ultimately commercialized in the United States. And the US has done a great job compared to the rest of the world on sort of setting that up and
[00:03:58] creating a framework that works. But we can always do better and improve it. And the president in his his speech in July talked a lot about um this issue of a patchwork of state regulations and how can we ensure that there aren't 50 different rules around AI and and what's most what's most important about this debate which I I think a lot of people sometimes don't sometimes miss is the patchwork is actually most detrimental
[00:04:22] to early stage young companies and entrepreneurs. If you want to develop a new AI technology, if you want to build something on top of one of our great frontier models, having to figure out how to navigate 50 different rules across 50 different states creates a lot of friction and ultimately the big guys are the ones that can succeed in in that environment the best. Um, so we're spending a lot of time trying to think
[00:04:41] about how can you create a legislative proposal that can actually um deliver on um a sensible national framework to solve to solve this regulatory issue. So, so what would you say then, Michael, are the basic frameworks that are uh sort of must-have in in that kind of federal oversight? Because some states did push back in the US and say, &quot;No, no, we want to be able to control our destiny when it comes to AI.&quot; What's
[00:05:06] most important when you look at that framework in terms of um a federal oversight? Yeah, I think in the executive order the president signed in in December directing us to kind of work through this proposal, he listed a few things that um the state should continue to be able to pursue individually on their own. Um legislation or rules around child safety was on that list. Um the rules around permitting of data
[00:05:30] centers and buildouts are continuing to be something that states should should look at. So there are a few things that were enumerated, but that's the kind of stuff that I guess Dave and I are going to be working through. I don't know if you have any thoughts on on that. Yeah, I mean I I think the the basic problem that we have is that I mean frankly the states are going hog wild right now with regulation. There's over,200 bills going
[00:05:49] through state legislatores right now. I think it's very much a knee-jerk reaction. I know there's a lot of fears and concerns about AI, but it seems like for every hypothetical concern, there's um multiple state bills now to try and regulate that thing before we really know how it's going to play out. And um I think it would be better to I think since this technology is so new and the environment is so dynamic, I think it'd
[00:06:13] be better to spend a little bit more time studying how AI is actually being used and what risks are actually materializing before you overregulate the thing. But in any event, that that's the what we're seeing right now at the state level. And um and and I think that the president's been very consistent that it would be better to have a single have one rule book, a single rule book at the federal level, lightweight
[00:06:36] federal standard. Uh I think this problem is only going to get more acute over time because again you you as you have 50 different states running in 50 different directions, the patchwork problem only gets um more significant. So, in any event, this is something that we're going to work, I think, closely together on this year, which is to see if we can get enough consensus on a federal framework to enact a law. Only
[00:06:58] Congress can ultimately cramp the states. We understand that. Um, and you know, as you know, it's very difficult to get a bill through Congress. You need 60 votes in the Senate. So, has to be bipartisan to to a certain degree. So, but we're going to try and see if we can um work to get that consensus. >> Yeah. And do you have any clarity on the timing on that in terms of um support in Congress for a federal oversight or do
[00:07:22] you see push back there as well depending on the state you're talking about? >> Well, there's push back in Congress to the idea of preeemption without a federal standard. So, in other words, you can't replace something with nothing. This is sort of the the thing that we heard uh repeatedly. But I think there is uh quite a bit of interest in both the House and the Senate towards having again some sort of lightweight
[00:07:43] federal standard. But we're still in the early stages of those conversations and we're going to see what we can try and get done this year. >> Meanwhile, you've got some people pushing back after wanting to see the innovation and growth of data centers. Now they're saying not in my backyard. What about that? Is that an issue? >> Yeah, I mean we got a letter recently from Bernie Sanders saying stop all data centers, all data center development.
[00:08:04] And you know if we do that we will lose the AI race. I mean you do need this infrastructure. Uh other countries are building out this infrastructure. China's building out I think they're um spinning up a a new uh nuclear power plant or um or coal plant new energy every single week and a lot of that is going to power their data centers. So it would fundamentally I think uh the United States in the AI race if we
[00:08:29] just stopped building data centers altogether. At the same time, there are concerns about affordability, about um whether consumers would have to pay a higher electrical rate because of data centers. Uh President Trump's been really clear that consumers should not have to pay higher rates for electricity because of data centers. You saw just last week Microsoft stepped up and made a pledge that it will that its data
[00:08:50] centers will not cause residential rates to increase. I think you'll likely see other tech companies stepping up and making similar commitments. And in fact, when I've talked to the hyperscalers and when I've talked to the AI companies, it was never their plan to draw off the grid. They all are uh saw standing up their own power generation as part of their buildout. Um and what Secretary Wright, the our Secretary of Energy has
[00:09:15] been doing is trying to um is is reform the regulations that actually make it more difficult for these AI data centers to stand up their own power behind the meter. So that basically is is our vision is let and and I should say this is President Trump's vision really since the beginning of the administration is he said let the AI companies become power companies let them stand up their own power generation as they built you
[00:09:39] know side by side with these new data centers and the um the result of that is you know a we get this infrastructure b residential rates don't go up. Yeah, because Michael, this this race has fast become it's moves from an AI race to a power race. >> And and I think what we're seeing is that um we we need to share a good story about how ultimately this buildout is going to be net positive for American rateayers. And I think sometimes if you
[00:10:08] know and if you're in a small community and someone shows up to build the data center, I mean, you have to make it clear that ultimately this something is going to actually lower your your rates long term. Um and and the president put out a tweet a truth last Monday where he was as as David said very clear that you know if you're going to build a data center you have to pay your own way for it and um Microsoft has stepped up and
[00:10:26] our our hope is that many others will do the same. >> But but some companies um because they don't have the cash right now are borrowing money right to to build out the data centers and there's also a worry that the banks will be left holding the bag for some of this because again the spending is is too much. your thoughts on that? >> Well, I think there there is obviously that concern. I mean, you you know, I I
[00:10:50] think it's it's um it's less I would say the banks are more you see Oracle making a huge investment. You see, uh Blackstone making huge investments, real estate companies. Um ultimately, I think these are very savvy market players, very deep companies, and they're doing this because they see an ROI there at the end of the the rainbow. Um can I make one other point about just the the data center? So, um, just on
[00:11:15] electricity, uh, I actually think that if we allow the data centers to stand up their own power generation, it will actually bring down rates. Not only will it not increase residential rates, it'll bring it down. And it'll do that in two ways. One is that the data centers can can give or sell power back to the meter when they have excess. So, that will help bring down rates. Second, there's a lot of fixed costs involved in power
[00:11:41] generation. It's not all variable. So when you're able to amortize those fixed costs over a greater supply, you bring down the meter rate for everybody. And so there's huge economies of scale. So the more scale you get in electricity, like most other things, the price comes down. That's what So it's actually a good thing that the uh that we have this buildout going on because it will ultimately reduce prices for consumers.
[00:12:06] But we do have to make sure that these new data centers aren't just plugging into the grid and using, they have to be contributing back. >> And I think what a great policy change has made under this administration, the the B administration had as a matter of policy had made it such that you couldn't do this behind the meter energy generation. Um, and if you wanted to bring your own power, you couldn't. You had to be part of the larger grid. So I
[00:12:27] think um that rule has has changed uh uh by by Secretary Wright and by FK to kind of allow this to happen. And ultimately I agree with David. I think once you have sort of greater scale in in the power generation, you'll be contributing back into the grid in a way that that benefits rateayers. >> Let's go back to the uses and how AI is changing our lives. You you mentioned earlier um all of the uses and and and
[00:12:49] the impact the AI is having. What do you see as the most important use and where AI is being deployed and implemented best right now? >> Well, it's interesting. I think it there's been an evolution. So I think we started with you know AI chat bots like chatgpt and in a sense that was kind of like better web search. Um it was really great for research asking it questions and give you answers to anything. Then
[00:13:13] we saw um we saw models add chain of thought and they could start to do you know deeper reasoning. Then we saw coding assistance. This is really and and I think over the past few months there's been a real breakthrough. If you talk to people, software developers, it really seems like there's been, you know, a major shift in in just improvement in the quality of the coding assistants. And I think where that's
[00:13:35] going next is um tools for knowledge workers. So the same types of assistants that have been outputting code can now output any type of format. So whether it's like Excel models, PowerPoints, websites, you name it, knowledge workers are now going to be able to generate all these different types of things the same way that coders have been gen that software developers have been using AI generate code. I think that's one of the
[00:14:02] big things you're going to see in 2026 is again just this um this productivity boom for knowledge workers. So I think that's like one of the things you're seeing on the ground. And then separately there's there's a bunch of things happening in industry verticals. So different industries being impacted by AI. So in healthcare I think there's a tremendous opportunity uh to improve um or to to reduce sort of administrative bureaucracy to uh to
[00:14:30] improve this um processing of paperwork that happens. also to use uh AI and medical and scientific research to help find new uh cures. You're already seeing users tell all sorts of stories about uh diagnosis. They've been able to put in their medical records into chat GBT or you know other chat engine or chat bots and get like remarkable results. They've been able to you know finally figure out what was you know what what was wrong
[00:14:56] with them and they've been able to take that to a doctor. You have doctors using it too. So medical I think is a really interesting area but there's a whole bunch of these um examples of different different industries are now being impacted. >> The the one area I think a lot about is is AI for science and and back to to to David's initial point about the progress we've seen these frontier models. I think the very early ones sort of
[00:15:18] started with just general knowledge and you have to go back and understand like why and the question was what was the data available for those model builders to start training their models and for the early ones you could just scrape the internet and just kind of cram everything into a model and train it and and that's where you kind of had this this first phase of of large language models and the second one was coding and
[00:15:38] if you think about how do you get a really good coding model you again you have to trade it you have to train it on existing code and that's again something that is you know relative atively easier to to acquire than other types of data and you saw great progress and jumps in in the coding models. I think the the third big sort of shift that hasn't really been touched on yet which the government itself is trying to do a good