[00:28:06] export push um they certainly were not the very best technology in the world. They were current they were certainly you know you know subpar compared to to Ericen and Nokia. that they were good enough and they were subsidized enough such that they became sort of the default telecom um system for a lot of the world and we've learned a lot of lessons from that and we take that very seriously. When it comes to AI, we know
[00:28:27] there's ambition for the Chinese to export their models and have them be the models that are powering all these different use cases across across the global south and across the rest of the world. Um, that's why the president launched something called the American AI export program and our mission and I think we're in a very lucky position here compared to what we're dealing with with Huawei is as David said, we are
[00:28:48] dominant in almost every part of the stack. We have the very best models. We have the various applications. We have the very best chips. So, we are in a position of power now and is up to us as a country to share that technology with the world with all of our partners and allies. make sure that any developer anywhere in the world that wants to build a new application using AI is using is fine-tuning an American model
[00:29:07] on top of an American chip. And that isn't that isn't a a hard reality to see. That is something that I think we can very easily do just because we have the very best tech. That's a program that um we launched last late last year and we're doing a big push this year to get that get that out the door. >> It's an important point that you make in terms of exporting AI to the rest of the world. Is it true that China is telling
[00:29:28] its companies don't use American chips, don't use American AI right now? >> It it it seems so. Um I mean China is developing its own models. Obviously about a year ago you had the Deepseek moment where you you had a powerful model released by Deep Seek and I think that kind of put Chinese uh AI on the map in a way. I think people in the west didn't realize you in a way how good China was at producing models and there
[00:29:54] was a little bit of complacency uh towards our relative position. People weren't really talking about the global competition two years ago. It wasn't really discussed at all. Uh I remember when you know the Biden administration created this you know 100page Biden executive order regulating AI. No one was talking about whether this might slow whether all this regulation would slow us down. Visa v China wasn't even
[00:30:17] part of the conversation. Then Deepseek launched and I think we did realize we're in a global competition and we have to win and that's why we have to actually be quite careful about how we regulate this and not make sure we're not overregulating it. But I think you know China definitely wants to compete. Um there have been some stories recently I think uh Bloomberg and Reuters reported that they actually are not
[00:30:39] allowing Nvidia chips into their country and the reason for that we think is that they want to indigenize chip production. They want to stand up Huawei as their national champion and effectively they're creating a market subsidy for Huawei by keeping out the competition. So, they're protecting their market to stand up Huawei. And I think their plan would be to have Huawei dominate chips in China first and then use that to
[00:31:05] scale up and then try to take over the rest of the world. Chip production is a scale up business. So, you know, if they can dominate the Chinese market first, that gives them a powerful platform to then proliferate to the rest of the world. >> So, so where are we in that, Michael? I mean, first you all came up with the AI action plan, then came up with another plan in terms of exporting AI to the rest of the world. What can you tell us
[00:31:27] in terms of where we are in that? >> Yeah, so the the progress is is moving on that. We um we closed a request for information from the commerce department late last year, which went out to industry and said, &quot;Hey, if we want to export the American AI stack, what should we be thinking about? How should we be designing these packages that we share with the world?&quot; Commerce is now ingesting that that information.
[00:31:46] There'll be a request for proposals that comes out very shortly. And that's where we actually want companies to come together to form consortia and say like look this is what a package looks like. And I think what um you know what what people need to sort what I always try to remind people is that the the the the buyers of AI around the world um vary quite dramatically in their level of sophistication. So in the US, if you're
[00:32:10] a very sort of, you know, if you're a Fortune50 company and you want to deploy AI, you have a pretty sophisticated sort of CIO or CTO shop, you are thinking very carefully about like which cloud you want to buy, which potential model you want to use, do you want to fine-tune it on your own data? Do you want to build your own application? You know, what application you go and see? You can like test various things. You
[00:32:28] like go to all these third parties and evaluate which is best. And it's a very sort of complicated mix of how you end up creating something that's optimum for your particular company. for a lot of countries around the world that are aspiring to to use AI for their people or to support the services whether it be health care or um you know tax collection or whatever it may be um you know they don't have a a you know
[00:32:50] billion dollar IT budget you know they're just trying to figure out what is a tool that I can use in my country to deliver the benefits of AI to my people so we think very carefully around how can we craft solutions which you know turn keys could be one way to put it or how do you how do you provide a solution that can easily be deployed in a country and what's often you know what often sort of gets caught up in this
[00:33:11] debate is this question of you know how many chips is the US going to be sending around the world and and what I always try to remind people is that you know outside of the US China and maybe a few other countries most countries around the world do not have the capital or the aspiration to do largecale training runs or development of their own frontier models there are very few countries around the world that are going to build
[00:33:32] sort of colossus style training centers most countries around the world need smaller data centers that just have inference related chips that can drive and and and do the you know do the inference on on the particular um runs that the government wants to have. So I think what we're working very hard to do is is is create sort of these these these turnkey manageablysized AI solutions that then we can partner with
[00:33:57] a lot of our export finance organizations like Development Finance Corporation or the Export Import Bank to make the export of that particular stack much more appealing and commercially viable in countries that are not extraordinarily deeped. Um so we're going to be in India next month for the India um AI impact summit. Um, this is sort of the largest global gathering for for AI folks. Um, and we're going to be
[00:34:21] sharing a lot more on on the progress of this uh of this program there. >> You want to weigh in? >> Well, I just just to build on that. I think people sometimes ask, you know, h how do you how will you know if if you've won the AI race, you know, with with with China with with other countries and I think there's a very simple answer to that which is market share. You know, if 5 years we look around the world and we see that it's
[00:34:45] American chips and models are being used everywhere, well that means we won. But if in 5 years we look around the world and it's Huawei chips and Deepseek models, then that would be very bad, right? That would be a bad sign. That means that we lost. So I do think that the proliferation or diffusion of American technology is really critical to winning this AI race. We know from Silicon Valley that the companies that
[00:35:06] end up becoming huge are the ones that create ecosystems. It's the, you know, you you you as a technology company, you want to have the most apps in your app store. You want to have the most developers writing on top of your API. You want to be a platform company. And so in all these technology races, biggest ecosystem wins. And we want to have the so that's basically why I think this program is so important is we want
[00:35:31] to create the biggest ecosystem. Now this is not only about benefiting the US because in order to have a successful ecosystem you have to create value for your partners and that's really important like Michael's saying not every country is going to be on the cutting edge of developing its own chips or developing its own frontier models but they can use these tools to derive value to apply them to their businesses
[00:35:54] to their economies to extract value and be part of this technological revolution. So I think that you know we have to think in this with this partner mindset and I do think that this this type of mindset is actually very common to Silicon Valley. Like I mentioned I think every great technology company thinks in terms of how do we get the most people on top of our tech stack but it is a form of thinking that's pretty
[00:36:17] alien to the bureaucracy in Washington which has much more of a command and control type of mindset. Y >> and when President Trump came into office, just give a couple examples of this, the regulations that were sitting on our desk that had just been handed down by our predecessors, again, we had this 100page Biden executive order on AI that was all this new regulation and there was a 200page uh was called the Biden diffusion rule,
[00:36:44] which was 200 pages of regulations uh on the export of semiconductors. So we were turning the the AI industry models and chips into a highly regulated industry. That was that was basically the direction that Washington was going in. And the first thing President Trump did his first week in office was rescend all of those unust regulations which I think was absolutely critical. You know the thing that really makes Silicon
[00:37:11] Valley special is this concept of permissionless innovation. you know, since um Hulin and Packard started 85 years ago, started building Silicon Valley, it's it the idea has always been that just a couple of founders kind of a great idea start their company, they get some angel investors to write, you know, a check for, you know, seed capital. Those investors think they're probably going to lose their money, but they
[00:37:35] figure there's a shot. and you know and it's so it could be the two guys in their garage or it could be the college dropout in the dorm room and they don't need to go to Washington to get permission for their idea right it's permissionless innovation that's what's has made Silicon Valley the crown jewel of the world it's why so many of the I think heads of state who are here are always asking how do we create our own
[00:37:56] Silicon Valley that was not the direction we were on when President Trump came into office the new 300 pages of regulations concerning AI the Biden administration left us with would have changed this um environment of permissionless innovation to an environment of you have to go to Washington to get approval for your idea and I think that President Trump really corrected that and since then we've been implementing you know his AI action plan
[00:38:23] uh which is all about you know pro innovation pro infrastructure pro energy and pro export so it's been I think a total change and I think just in the past year you've seen the results of that >> and I think what one thing to to add there Um part of the the international uh agenda that we have on AI is one obviously let's let's do the export but the other piece is trying to share with all of our partners and allies how you
[00:38:47] can actually create a regatory environment that allows this technology to succeed and here we are in Europe and I think many of us that sort of have you know tried to work with technology companies in Europe have have hit sort of a lot of roadblocks and a lot of stumbles and no matter you know the drug reporting came out and and he can say that there's a lot of issues But things don't ever seem to seem to really
[00:39:08] change. And I think all of that that the the the way that our regulatory structure is is designed in the US and the way that the entrepreneurial spirit thrives in the US is something that we try to share with countries all around the world. And I think the the the general um knee-jerk reaction for most policy makers around the world is one that moves to a corner that is obsessed with the precautionary principle. this
[00:39:34] concept that every time something new comes out, the role of the policy maker is to sort of like sit in a room and whiteboard everything that could go wrong and then design regulations to make sure those wrong things, these hypothetical wrong things don't happen. When in reality, what we do in the US, what we try to do is sit in a room and whiteboard what rules we can create to actually unlock innovation. What are the
[00:39:56] ones we should remove to allow more innovation to happen? And I think that mindset is something that we constantly try to share at all these international fora. The US has you know there has been an AB test on what regulatory structure works and what succeeds. You know we've seen how the how how Europe has approached this in the last 20 years and we've seen what the US has done. So I think the the recipe is kind of obvious
[00:40:17] but but sometimes we have to just keep repeating it to to our counterparts. And I love the Draghy report because it was so clearly uh identifying companies that are in Europe that you know like no Novo Nordus is like 350 billion or $400 billion company and in America we've had companies of trillion dollar companies Nvidia hitting$5 trillion. So so what is the path to innovation? Well, I I I think part of it is and I I
[00:40:47] I think this is the difference between maybe the American mindset and the European mindset towards this is that ultimately the innovation in the United States comes from the private sector. It comes from the entrepreneurs, the founders, the innovators, the geniuses with an idea. And I think that the government sees its role, at least when it's thinking properly about this, as being an enabler and as just setting the
[00:41:11] rules of the road. um and maybe putting in some guard rails, but basically it's letting the entrepreneurs cook and that's how you get innovation. And now I don't want to bash our European host too much, but you know the when when the uh when the EU talks about AI leadership, they're talking about the regulators and they think their value ad is well, we're going to we're going to show the whole world the regulatory model for AI. So,
[00:41:38] it's kind of a bad case of u main character syndrome where uh you know where like the regulators think they're the main characters in this. No, look, the regulators are the supporting players. The main characters always have to be the entrepreneurs. It's got to be the innovators. That's how you unlock innovation. When the when you start to see yourself, I mean, the the regulators and the policy makers as the as the main
[00:42:02] characters, that's not a great recipe for innovation. And I think just just a minor point on the on the AI stuff in Europe that you know the EUAI act which has been so detrimental to to the AI ecosystem here here in Europe was passed before chat GPT was even invented and that shows the challenge here. You're you're you're believing that you can solve some kind of problem or some you're solving something but the end of
[00:42:25] the day innovation is moving so much more quickly and ultimately that that rule makes no sense now in a world of of frontier models large language models and they have to sort of edit it. So, let me push back before we go and ask you to identify any risks or threats or downside risks in all of this. What should we be worried about if anything with regard to AI usage? >> Well, I I think there are Orwellian scenarios uh of AI that I think we
[00:42:55] should be concerned about. And again, I I tend to think that those scenarios were described by George Orwell, not by, you know, James Cameron and the Terminator. And specifically, it's misuse of AI by government. I do think that AI could be used as a tool to um surveil, to censor, to even potentially brainwash the population. This is why the administration has taken such a firm stance against what it's called woke AI,
[00:43:22] which I almost think that that name maybe trivializes the magnitude of the problem we're talking about. We're talking about AI having a political bias built into it. Um, and it the bias can be so subtle that people don't even necessarily notice over time, but it has a huge impact on what people are allowed to learn and think and know and what you know children learn. And so I think it's very important that we try to make sure
[00:43:46] that AI was politically unbiased. Um there just in this regard, one of the things that we were so concerned about with that Biden executive order on AI that we were sended in the first week is that it had 20 pages of language on DEI and it was promoting this idea that AI models need to build in a DEI layer. Well, you know, this is how you ended up with, you know, the the the black George Washington uh you know, story where that