[00:13:35] going next is um tools for knowledge workers. So the same types of assistants that have been outputting code can now output any type of format. So whether it's like Excel models, PowerPoints, websites, you name it, knowledge workers are now going to be able to generate all these different types of things the same way that coders have been gen that software developers have been using AI generate code. I think that's one of the
[00:14:02] big things you're going to see in 2026 is again just this um this productivity boom for knowledge workers. So I think that's like one of the things you're seeing on the ground. And then separately there's there's a bunch of things happening in industry verticals. So different industries being impacted by AI. So in healthcare I think there's a tremendous opportunity uh to improve um or to to reduce sort of administrative bureaucracy to uh to
[00:14:30] improve this um processing of paperwork that happens. also to use uh AI and medical and scientific research to help find new uh cures. You're already seeing users tell all sorts of stories about uh diagnosis. They've been able to put in their medical records into chat GBT or you know other chat engine or chat bots and get like remarkable results. They've been able to you know finally figure out what was you know what what was wrong
[00:14:56] with them and they've been able to take that to a doctor. You have doctors using it too. So medical I think is a really interesting area but there's a whole bunch of these um examples of different different industries are now being impacted. >> The the one area I think a lot about is is AI for science and and back to to to David's initial point about the progress we've seen these frontier models. I think the very early ones sort of
[00:15:18] started with just general knowledge and you have to go back and understand like why and the question was what was the data available for those model builders to start training their models and for the early ones you could just scrape the internet and just kind of cram everything into a model and train it and and that's where you kind of had this this first phase of of large language models and the second one was coding and
[00:15:38] if you think about how do you get a really good coding model you again you have to trade it you have to train it on existing code and that's again something that is you know relative atively easier to to acquire than other types of data and you saw great progress and jumps in in the coding models. I think the the third big sort of shift that hasn't really been touched on yet which the government itself is trying to do a good
[00:15:58] uh push on is the AI for science question and why it's so challenging for scientific discovery to like tie in with the way that LMS are are traditionally trained is that the science data is extraordinarily fragmented and it's not done in a way or formatted in a way that um can easily be applied to a large language model sort of like training run and if you think about scientific discovery it's spread out across so many
[00:16:22] different disciplines. You have chemistry data, you have math data, you have material science data and all of that is is all types of different formats. And our effort in administration um we launched something called the Genesis mission which are is our attempt to sort of make these big bold leaps in AI for scientific discovery. and our national labs at the Department of Energy are have been doing incredible research over the last you
[00:16:45] know 50 60 years and all of that has is sitting and is ready to be used to be trained for for for these models. So my hope is that over the next year we're going to see a lot more work in this in scientific discovery to be able to actually accelerate how quickly we can choose which experiments to run, run those experiments, go back and figure out what we did wrong and run them again. And and this ties in with lots of
[00:17:06] interesting ideas that people have around some of these AI labs where you essentially have you can put in the the the thesis or the hypothesis and ultimately these labs can do lab experiment itself and move forward. So that's kind of the dream that I have that that ultimately we as a country can can almost double our our R&amp;D output over the next 10 years because of AI. >> So so what kind of breakthroughs um
[00:17:27] would you expect or would you like to see? Yeah, I I think there um the ones that I think can make a big impact are uh first the the the the experimentation and training runs around fusion um are extraordinarily computationheavy and they themselves if we can if we can have a a a faster feedback loop on how we do these these simulations for fusion we can move the timelines in for fusion. So that could be a big a big step.
[00:17:55] Material science is also a very a very big area where you want to be able to test all types of of different molecules and how interact with each other. This is important for all the big things we're trying to do in space. Whether it's our lunar base or getting to Mars or bringing nuclear energy to space, having advanced material science is important. And the third is one that everyone always cares about is is
[00:18:14] healthcare and and therapeutics. How can you more quickly be able to identify the the best molecules to solve a particular particular health challenge? and how do you more quickly iterate to a point where you can move to a to a clinical trial >> and on a everyday level I mean you also have the auto sector I think as a big beneficiary here I think that's one area that seems to be spending a lot on this as well you agree with that
[00:18:38] >> well I mean with like self-driving or >> I mean self-driving for sure is going to be huge it feels like we've hit some sort of new inflection point there where the quality's gotten to the point where you're starting to see robo taxis now Whimo and Tesla. Um >> what what about an AI assistant? I mean, is that going to be something that is sort of common place? I someone said to me the other day that oh, in China we're
[00:19:03] doing things so much differently because you're using AI for research as as you said, but we're using it as I have my AI assistant and I'm um you know, they're paying my bills and cleaning my house and buying my wife a birthday present and and doing everything for me. I I think so. I think that'll happen probably this year. So the the product that just came out recently that everyone's kind of going crazy over is
[00:19:28] the latest iteration of flawed code uh which is uh powered by uh anthropics uh opus 4.5 model which seems to be a real breakthrough in in in coding and so again this is you know the software developers are really imp impressed with it but in inside of cloud code they had they introduced a new tab called co-work again you can as a non coder uh or as someone who is looking for um to create output other than code, you
[00:19:58] can now use it to uh to basically create all sorts of other kinds of outputs. Like I mentioned, you can do uh spreadsheets or powerpoints, things like that. And you can have it, you can point it to your file drive and it can look at the work you've already done. So if there's a particular type of format for a PowerPoint you like, you just point it to the work you've already done and say I want to do you know a new um you know
[00:20:23] presentation but using this style but on this topic and it'll actually emulate you know your style and and the work your format the work you've already done. And um people are very impressed with this and you can also point it at your email and have it analyze your email pull things out of it. So it right now it's very taskbased. You you the user have to prompt it for each task. But you can see there the beginning of a
[00:20:50] personal digital assistant where you connect it to your file drive to your email to all of your data sources and it can start to do tasks for you and again it understands the format and the style that you like to produce work in. So, it feels to me like we just need one more layer of abstraction on top of a tool like that and you'll have your own personal digital assistant >> and um you know there'll be like a voice
[00:21:18] interface. You ever seen the movie Her you know with uh walking Phoenix and um I think Scarlett Johansson is just the voice but uh you know he's telling her what what to do through an earpiece. I mean we're very close to something like that. I mean, I'm not saying that, you know, the AI is going to become sensient or whatever, but um but no, we're like I think in 2026, you could see that that these types of of tools again started as
[00:21:43] coding assistants, but now they become personal digital assistants. That could definitely happen this year. >> Michael, what what don't people understand about AI? What what do you think is most important for us to understand about the innovation underway right now with science and and AI? I I think some people I I think it's easy to underestimate the the long-term impact this is going to have across so many
[00:22:05] industries and and domains. Um I think very much, you know, it's easy to to to quickly think about AI as a as just a sophisticated chatbot because that's what most people interact with every day and and that's what they they they touch and feel. Um, but I think that to me I think the long-term impacts and not to keep harping on the science, I think there is a there's a a real fundamental shift happening in the velocity and pace
[00:22:28] that we can test and uh and evaluate and execute scientific discovery and endeavors. And I think I think that's going to have huge repercussions for the way that we as a country innovate broadly speaking in the years ahead >> which is why we're watching what China is doing. Let's talk a bit about China and where it is relative to the United States. Are we winning? Is it about chips? What's the race specifically
[00:22:49] really about? >> Well, I I I think that in general we're ahead of China. There's different layers of the stack. So, you've got the the the models, then you've got the chips, and you know, then you've got the chipm equipment, you know. So, you go down the stack. I would say that the deeper in in the stack that you go, the greater the American advantage. Um I think on models most people would say that we're our
[00:23:13] models are maybe 6 months ahead or so plus or minus of the Chinese models. You look at chips maybe 2 years ahead. You go to the semiconductor manufacturing equipment it could be like 5 years. So the US does have sign significant advantages there. There's only maybe a couple of areas where I think China has has an advantage. Um one is on energy production. And if you look at the their grid, their grid has roughly doubled in
[00:23:42] the last 10 years, whereas ours has only grown by about 2 to 3%. Energy production in the US has been a relatively sleepy industry before AI came along. And a lot of that had to do with regulations and the antipathy of the previous administration towards energy production. Obviously, President Trump had a very different view on this. I think he was preient on this issue. you go back 10 years and he was talking
[00:24:08] about we got a drill baby drill and um and I think he understood that energy growth was the precondition for economic growth and it's definitely the pre precondition for this uh AI infrastructure growth. So this is an area where again we have to basically expand our energy production um and I and and and so I think that is an area where we need to catch up. The other area where I would say, you know, I I don't know if I would call this an
[00:24:37] advantage exactly, but if you but you could argue that China has the edge in what is what's being um called AI optimism. So there was a a polling done by Stanford across countries and they asked the citizens of all these different countries uh do you feel that the benefits of AI will be more beneficial or more harmful? And if if you thought that it that overall be more beneficial than harmful they call that AI optimism. Well in China AI
[00:25:11] optimism was 83%. So 83% of the population feels that it's being more beneficial than harmful. That number in the United States is only 39%. So for some reason people in China are more optimistic about AI than in the United States and you generally you generally see this that uh Asian countries are very high on AI optimism in the western countries are lower and I think it's a interesting or open question about why this is. I think
[00:25:39] there's a few possible explanations for it. I I think that um first of all, the the media tends to focus on the doom and gloom stories with with AI, >> the fear, >> the fears. Um and we can talk about some of those fears and uh and and how, you know, whether we think they're they're real. Um but I think the media has a lot to do with it. I think that the the way that Hollywood has portrayed AI over the decades, you know, with whether it's the
[00:26:05] Terminator or 2001, uh has you has portrayed this dystopian view of the future. And I think that plays into fuel's thinking. And then frankly, I would say that part of the the fault lies with our tech leaders who haven't necessarily done a great job describing the benefits of AI. In fact, when they're talking about, you know, AI eliminating 50% of knowledge workers, that doesn't sound like a, you know, very utopian scenario. That sounds
[00:26:32] dystopian to most people. And so I do think that unintentionally some of our tech leaders have played into this um AI pessimism. And the reason why I think this could be a disadvantage for the United States is because again it's feeding into this regulatory frenzy we're seeing again 1,200 bills at the state level. And right now I think you know we are winning this AI race. We're ahead in all the key dimensions chips
[00:26:57] models and so on. But we could shoot ourselves in the foot, you know, if we end up overregulating this thing to to death, we could actually cost ourselves this AI race. So, I do worry about this question of AI optimism, >> right? It's a great point. And how what would happen if the US is not number one in this, Michael? >> Yeah, I I I think we we need to be and that's why we put put the plan out. I think you know when I think about the
[00:27:21] the China question and about the the sort of larger question of how do we win the AI race what always what I always like to think about is this question of adoption and I think sometimes there's this overemphasis on the leaderboard it's like which frontier model is number one on some sort sort of metric and the reality is we're neck and neck and as David said we're probably had you know six to 12 months on our frontier models
[00:27:42] but I think what we have seen over over time and over history is that um you don't necessarily need to have the very best model or very best piece of technology in the world for it to perforate globally. And a lot of us who were part of the first Trump administration saw this very firsthand with the telecom wars of that era of what Huawei was able to do globally. And at the time when when Huawei first started their their sort of global
[00:28:06] export push um they certainly were not the very best technology in the world. They were current they were certainly you know you know subpar compared to to Ericen and Nokia. that they were good enough and they were subsidized enough such that they became sort of the default telecom um system for a lot of the world and we've learned a lot of lessons from that and we take that very seriously. When it comes to AI, we know
[00:28:27] there's ambition for the Chinese to export their models and have them be the models that are powering all these different use cases across across the global south and across the rest of the world. Um, that's why the president launched something called the American AI export program and our mission and I think we're in a very lucky position here compared to what we're dealing with with Huawei is as David said, we are
[00:28:48] dominant in almost every part of the stack. We have the very best models. We have the various applications. We have the very best chips. So, we are in a position of power now and is up to us as a country to share that technology with the world with all of our partners and allies. make sure that any developer anywhere in the world that wants to build a new application using AI is using is fine-tuning an American model
[00:29:07] on top of an American chip. And that isn't that isn't a a hard reality to see. That is something that I think we can very easily do just because we have the very best tech. That's a program that um we launched last late last year and we're doing a big push this year to get that get that out the door. >> It's an important point that you make in terms of exporting AI to the rest of the world. Is it true that China is telling
[00:29:28] its companies don't use American chips, don't use American AI right now? >> It it it seems so. Um I mean China is developing its own models. Obviously about a year ago you had the Deepseek moment where you you had a powerful model released by Deep Seek and I think that kind of put Chinese uh AI on the map in a way. I think people in the west didn't realize you in a way how good China was at producing models and there
[00:29:54] was a little bit of complacency uh towards our relative position. People weren't really talking about the global competition two years ago. It wasn't really discussed at all. Uh I remember when you know the Biden administration created this you know 100page Biden executive order regulating AI. No one was talking about whether this might slow whether all this regulation would slow us down. Visa v China wasn't even