[01:15:53] Twitter X. But I feel like that was mental illness, and I think Rudy Giuliani is just stupid. So, I give it to Rudy Giuliani, the namesake of this award. And I hope Kanye West that, J Cal, is I'm not going to defend him or his actions at all. However, I do think I do think that judgment was excessive and it's part of a pattern of ridiculous judgments that we see when you have, for example, a DC jury pool judging a conservative or a Republican
[01:16:25] whose politics they disagree with. The plaintiffs only asked for $48 million. The jury awarded three times that. It's an excessive award. I think a few million dollars as a penalty would have been a perfectly nice award. I think to bankrupt the man, which is what you're talking about, is becoming a bit of a pile on. And I'm all in favor of Rudy being the butt of jokes until the point where really you're talking about
[01:16:50] destroying his life. I think it's gone way too far. Yeah, these are words are curious in how large they are. They all get appealed though, and they all come down. So, I'm sure that'll come down by some massive percentage in the near future. This has been the year-end episode. Can you believe it? We made it another year, guys. Here we are at the end of 2023. We'll do our predictions next week, so you'll get our
[01:17:12] amazing predictions for 2024 in the next episode. Any closing thoughts on the year we just had? Freeberg, how you feeling here at the end of the year? Are you hopeful? Are you cheery? Are you sad? Are you excited? I've been up since 5:00 a.m. and I just drank beers, so I'm pretty tired. You're okay. But with respect, that's kind of how the whole year feels, actually. Feel like I Exhausted? Yeah, I just got up early,
[01:17:38] cranked through the day, had some beer, and I'm ready for a nap. But I'm I'm probably more optimistic going into 2024 than I was going into 2023 cuz that's on a personal basis, and I think, yeah, there's just a lot going on today in the world. Yeah, it's complex, isn't it? I do think as long as we embrace the enlightenment and don't embrace the dark ages, we we stand a shot at keeping progress alive, and I think that's the the the
[01:18:06] the defining characteristics of human civilization is progress, and that's I I think ultimately resolves all the conflicts and other things. We just got to keep it alive. Well said. Chamath, how are you feeling here as we wrap up 2023 and looking into 2024? I think 2022 and 2023 have been looking back, the most important 2 years of my professional career. I think I benefited, like we all I think I think all four of us could say this,
[01:18:33] of just an incredible set of tailwinds. And '22 and '23 were the first time where I was in a position of influence and capital and power where I had to confront that those tailwinds can quickly become headwinds and that we are not impervious to them. So, I like Friedberg. I'm looking forward to '24 where I can try to put all these learnings to good use. So, it's been generally good. And '23 was the most important year of my life in
[01:19:02] the sense that I got remarried. So, that's been a huge personal highlight. Yes, beautiful. Love that you guys all came to that as well. a highlight for us, too. Absolutely beautiful. But yeah, I'm ready to I'm ready to turn the page on this year and start '24. Sacks, any closing thoughts here? Well, I think one of the biggest surprises of 2023 is that we didn't have a recession. I mean, I think most people were betting on a recession in '23. They
[01:19:24] thought that a soft landing would be almost impossible. And in fact, the data is that soft landings almost never occur. Remember what Larry Summers said to us at our All-In Summit this year, which is soft landings are like second marriages. It's the triumph of hope over experience. Meaning, they almost never happen. And so, the fact that we didn't get that, I think that was basically a pretty important bullet dodged. Now,
[01:19:49] that being said, I do think that the whole B2B software industry definitely went through a recession. But fortunately, I think we bottomed out and we're starting to see green shoots now. So, things are returning to normal. On the global stage, things are still okay in the sense that the US is not directly in a war, but man, it is pretty scary. We could be pulled into Pretty dynamic. Very dynamic. We could be pulled into a war in the Middle East
[01:20:14] any time. We still have a proxy war going in Ukraine. So, there are a lot of risks still on the horizon. I'll just say for the gentlemen and for the audience, it has been wonderful to have all of you, the audience, the fans of the show, and you besties in my life over two really tough years. It was also very proud of myself going into them. I knew I was built for war and uh it was a war the last few years. It was
[01:20:38] difficult. It was hard. But we all I think learned a lot and came out stronger because of it and I just want to give a particular shout-out to all of you guys for making this brand extraordinary and taking it to new heights. Almost all the times I've I've built things, brands, and gadget, Silicon Insider reporter, All-In, whatever it is, it was a solo effort. And it's just been really rewarding to be part of a team and I
[01:21:02] want to just give a particular note to uh Freeberg who I think all of us owe a real debt of gratitude towards. He took the All-In Summit which was a very strong start in 2022 and he leveled it up in 2023 amazingly and I'm just so excited to to see what we do in 2024 with this amazing brand memberships, tequilas, another 50 episode, and a great All-In Summit next year I hope. So, shout-out to my guy Freeberg. For the dictator, the Sultan of Science,
[01:21:33] Chairman Dictator. Sorry, apologize for getting that incorrect there. We'll get it right. Chairman Dictator. And the Rainman, David Sacks. I am the world's greatest moderator and we will see you in 2024. Bye-bye. Happy New Year. Love you guys. Happy New Year, Bye-bye. Love you, besties. Let your winners ride. Rainman, David Sacks. And I said we open sourced this to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you, besties. Queen of quinoa.
[01:22:11] Besties are back. That is my dog taking a dump in his rear driveway, Sacks. Oh, man. We should all just get a room and just have a one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow. What are your thoughts What are your thoughts What? We need to get mercy out. I'm going all in.
[01:22:44] I'm going all in.