[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back. It is our fourth annual Bestie Awards. Yes, everybody is incredibly excited to hear the biggest winners in politics and losers in business, best science breakthroughs, so many amazing categories. With me again, Chairman Dictator Chamath Palihapitiya, our billionaire POC. Welcome back to the program, Chamath. Bye, POC. Bye, POC. That's what I said, billionaire POC. Billionaire person of color. Yes, please
[00:00:28] get it right. And running the all-in DEI group, the Rain Man himself, David Sacks. Welcome back to the program. Good to be here. Okay, and the Sultan of Science. Welcome back to the program. Are you ready with your selections, gentlemen? Are we ready to do this? J. Cal, this is the holiday episode. You got to have a little more cheer. This isn't all business, dude. Cue the music, Nick. 3 2
[00:00:56] Yes, and here we are, everybody, back again for the 2023 Bestie Awards. This is where everybody goes crazy. Oh my god, standing ovation. Hold on, who's drinking some champagne with me? I need some champagne popping. What are you guys drinking? These are the awards. Everybody wants to know who's going to be a winner. You're right, I need a drink. Hold on. He needs a drink for this? I need a drink, too. Can you Can I go
[00:01:17] get a drink? Hang on. Everybody get a drink, loosen it up. I'm at my office. I don't have alcohol here. Look in the second drawer. Let your winners ride. Rain Man David Sacks. And as I said, we open sourced it to the fans, and they've just gone crazy with it. All right, everybody. Welcome to the Bestie Awards for 2023. What are you drinking? I got a little Veuve Clicquot. You know, I love my Veuve. going to drink it?
[00:01:48] You know, I People don't know this about me, but that was um my beverage of choice was the old Veuve Clicquot when I would go out in New York. What have you got there, Sacks? What are you drinking for the 2023 Bestie Awards? What are you drinking? I'm drinking my Clase Azul Reposado and uh a glass with a single big rock and I broke out my uh patriotic Great Seal of the United States glass. This is a tribute to the border. You got
[00:02:15] a little bit of Mexico, a little bit of the United States, and is it flowing between the border and you? Is that it? It's open border now. Open border for Christmas. open at this point. Got you. Okay. It just flooded again. Yeah. Chamath, you're not drinking. You're at the office. Freeberg I mean, I didn't I didn't plan. I brought my props to wish everybody happy holidays. Oh, nice. It's beautiful. And this festive sweater.
[00:02:38] Amazing. Freeberg, everybody knows that you're a a quiet solo drinker in your darkest hours. What are you drinking? There's no surprises there. What are you drinking? I'm always drinking what I got to hang out with you, J Cal. I'm drinking a Victoria beer. A Victoria beer. actually. I don't think you would hang out with J Cal sober, do you? Oh, everybody, there it is. Woo. I cannot. We've got the Veuve Clicquot.
[00:03:01] Unfortunately, at my ski house, I can't find the flute, so I'm going to put this in a wine glass. Sorry for the sacrilege. But cheers, here's to another amazing year of the All-In podcast and the besties hanging out. Cheers. You want to say a few words, J Cal? Yeah, I'd like to say a few words. memoriam of the year? Yes, working with you guys has been delightful, miserable, and everything in between. Congratulations on all of our success
[00:03:23] and uh here's to an amazing 2024. And hopefully we find a CEO and we can keep this thing going for another 150 or so episodes. Nobody thought we would get here. Everybody hates us for our success. And the mids and the haters. Love you, besties. Cheers. Well, I I would like to make a toast. Here we go. Here is to three of the most talented warm friendly guys and J Cal. Yeah, I knew he was coming. I wouldn't let you joke for a minute from
[00:03:57] me. I touched you that one. I touched you in this direction. Don't ever forget it, brother. All right. Well, to three of the most sincere, heartfelt, intelligent, loving individuals, and David Sacks, welcome to the program. I've got a big huge lineup here for you. And let's just get to it. We're going to give our 2023 award for the biggest winner in politics last year. Chamath, you said that your prediction for 2023, now we're
[00:04:26] going to give the actual award for 2023, but in our predictions episode last year, you said you were long Nikki Haley and short DeSantis. What a prescient call. What do you have this year? That's spread trade paid off in spades. Yeah. Big spread trade. Looking back, I think the biggest political winner was Donald Trump. Okay. I think that the documents case galvanized his leadership in the Republican nomination, and I think that
[00:04:54] this move by the Colorado Supreme Court basically sealed the deal. I think he is going to run away with the Republican nomination, and barring some catastrophic meltdown, has a better chance to get into the White House than before this Colorado case. So, he was the biggest political winner, I think, of 2023. It just seems to me that if I had to really put it in a nutshell, I think that the the Dems, in this weird way,
[00:05:24] actually want Trump back in office more than the Republicans do, because everything they've done has been nearsighted, and I think has actually galvanized his support, and increased his popularity and his ability to fundraise more than anything else. Friedberg, who is your biggest political winner of 20 23? Who did I give it to you last year? Do you do you remember? You gave it to MBS and Saudi that they would have the your prediction
[00:05:55] was they would have the most important year in the modern era. Well, but in some ways I think they are center stage That's what I thought and yeah, so I am giving my biggest winner. I'm giving my biggest political winner award to the nation state of Saudi Arabia. Oh, why? Like they are sitting in the middle of the US China, Iran Israel, Russia. They have relations with all of those nations and relations where
[00:06:19] they are trying to be productive. Mhm. Extraordinary leverage with both their capital, their geographic positioning and their energy resourcing and painting a very positive future on how they want to reinvest their capital and modernize the country and I think one of the biggest coups that they pulled this year was turning J Cal to being a big promoter of Saudi after his visit to the Middle East. And so I think
[00:06:43] they're entering 2024 with great strength and leverage. So I give them credit for riding out many storms this year and coming out ahead. So it's just it's been interesting to watch. I'm not I'm not close or tied to them in any way, but I just think from a global leverage point of view they seem to be in a very strong place. So that's my my award. I can't disagree with you that the place has made incredible progress.
[00:07:08] Personal freedoms, economic freedoms, they're the country is evolving and embracing every country on the planet, right? So you you have to take that as a win. I have no business interest there, but I I am impressed with the progress. So sacks that means it's your turn to give your short 2023 biggest winner. My biggest winner in politics, J Cal, I think you'll like this one, is abortion rights. Abortion rights? Huh. I have abortion
[00:07:36] rights. After Dobbs, abortion rights are winning on every battle where they're at issue. Mhm. It's won referenda in very red states like Kansas, Kentucky, Montana, and Ohio. It's swung legislatures to the Dems in swing states like Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. It's swung state Supreme Court races in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. I'd go so far as to say it's the Democrats' only winning issue, and they are putting it
[00:07:58] on the ballot everywhere they can. Ruth Bader Ginsburg pointed out around 30 years ago that we likely could have reached this resolution decades ago if the courts hadn't stolen the issue from the political process because abortion rights were in the process of being liberalized everywhere. And in my view, the political process is messy, but it's how we finally move past the issue as a nation, which is why I think Dobbs was the right
[00:08:24] decision, even if it was a difficult one. Huh, interesting. So, you are smoothing over Trump's taking away the right for women to choose and saying that this is a net positive for the country, if I'm reading it correctly. Well, Trump didn't take anything away. The Supreme Court The Supreme Court didn't take anything away. The Supreme Court Hold on. I I just explained it. You're not listening. The Supreme Court gave
[00:08:47] the issue back to the democratic process. The democratic process is now voting to maintain abortion rights, and that is going to settle the issue once and for all. So, all of your fears that abortion rights would fall by the wayside because that's Supreme Court decision have actually proven to be null and void. What we're ending up with is a better solution where the country doesn't need to fight about this anymore
[00:09:11] because the voters have expressed the will of the people. Fantastic framing. Great save for the Republican Party there. Well, it won't be unless they learn how to talk about the issue. Yeah, I mean, the way I would frame the same issue is that Trump stacked the deck to take away women's right to choose in order to get elected, but your framing is pretty good, too. And you're a master of framing these things. So,
[00:09:33] I was torn here for mine. I had two different choices. I was either going to go with Nikki Haley because what an amazing feat for her to to even be getting close to Trump in some of these primaries. But I think really the biggest winners in this year of 2023 were non-traditional candidates actually becoming somewhat viable and capturing the imagination of young people. Vivek, RFK, and Dean Phillips being I think the three leading candidates. So,
[00:10:03] I'm going to go with the non-traditional candidates being the big winners for 2023. And for last year I had said that my prediction was my for 2023 was that Trump would get indicted, win the nomination, and then agree to not run because he gets a pardon. So, I think I've got two or three of those uh in the parlay in the bank. Let's go on to biggest loser. The biggest loser in politics. When we did our predictions
[00:10:32] for 2023, Chamath, you said that you were short DeSantis. Here we are, we're giving our actual award for the biggest political loser in 2023. Freeberg, I'll start with you. Who was your biggest political loser for 2023? My biggest political loser is the DEI movement. Uh I heard obviously post October 7th, the Hamas attacks on Israel, and then the following support for Hamas that came out of what have historically
[00:11:03] been groups that are aligned with DEI interests, and then the DEI driven leaders of the universities that went in front of Congress to defend their freedom of speech rules around anti-Semitic protests caused a lot of folks that I know who are very liberal and very influential to wake up to the negative impacts of uh the DEI movement and its linkage to potentially anti-Semitism, which is masked in this oppressor oppressed
[00:11:33] ideology, that is the basis of a lot of these DEI protocols. And so, I think it really shined a a negative light on DEI this year in a way that hasn't been the case in a broader way with very influential people in a very long time. And so, I think that that movement is going to take a big hit and uh took a big hit the end of this year and will uh continue to, I think, be questioned by donors and supporters of the ideologies
[00:11:56] of that movement. Okay. Sacks, who is your biggest loser in politics for 2023? My biggest loser in politics for this year is Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the president of Ukraine. And you can see this pretty clearly by just looking at the cover of Time magazine. He began the year fresh off of winning Time magazine's Person of the Year, and by the end of the year, the same author at Time magazine was writing a new cover story saying that
[00:12:24] Zelenskyy had become delusional, he had become messianic, he was ordering his troops on suicide missions, and his own inner circle had turned on him. And of course, who could forget that other photo from the middle of the year at Vilnius, when all those Euro snobs turned their back on Zelenskyy. That was a brutal image that went viral on social media, literally the European elite turning their backs on a frustrated
[00:12:50] Zelenskyy. Sadly, Zelenskyy had the opportunity in April of 2022 to make peace, to sign a peace deal, and unfortunately, he took Boris Johnson and and Joe Biden's advice to pressure Putin rather than make peace, and I think that gamble has turned into a disaster for him. Chamath, your biggest political loser in 2023? I had a different choice, but I think Mhm. Game time change? Yeah, hearing David has convinced me. I will I will go
[00:13:20] with the death of the acronyms. It was it was close for me between that and I actually think that Joe Biden unfortunately had a very difficult run of it in 2023 when you actually think about it. The Ukraine thing was a fiasco. All of this stuff around maybe putting the hand on the scale, whether it's on Elon or against Donald Trump. It's all just very messy, I think for him. But I do think that Friedberg is right.
[00:13:49] This is probably the beginning of the end of the acronyms and if you look at ESG and DEI together, ESG's a little bit more measurable, but sustainable asset ownership and ESG ownership across the world shrank by 15%, which you may say is that a big number or not? That's $5 and so where the money goes typically, so goes everything else in modern society. And so when the money starts to scurry, I think that you can pretty much
[00:14:19] expect that people's patience and support of these kinds of movements are waning. I'll go with death of the acronyms are the biggest political losers. So you started, you were going to say Biden, but you changed it in real time and you went DEI ESG acronyms. Acronyms, yeah. Okay, death of the acronyms. You know, I had a lot of talks with folks about this one. People had a lot of input. Some people said DeSantis, some people
[00:14:43] said Biden. I think the biggest 2023 loser in politics is the American people who are now faced with a Biden-Trump rematch. Both of those individuals clearly being in different stages of decline, being over 80. And the GOP just can't quit Trump and it seems like the Democrats can't quit Biden despite 70-80% of the country not wanting the rematch. So I'm going to give the American people are the biggest political losers of 2023.
[00:15:14] All right, here we go. Biggest political surprise. This is the biggest political surprise of 2023. Sachs, what's your biggest political surprise? Well, I think the biggest political surprise, and it was a very negative one, was the Hamas attack on Israel on the morning of October 7th, which really seemed to come out of nowhere. Only 8 days before, Jake Sullivan, who's Biden's National Security Advisor, had declared that the Middle East had been
[00:15:38] quieter than it had been in two decades. And those words obviously proved proved very ill-timed, but he wasn't alone in thinking that. I think almost everybody was really surprised by this attack. I think until then, the Middle East seemed to be on a path of progress with the Abraham Accords being negotiated between Israel and several Gulf monarchies. And I think that October 7th has really changed the political paradigm,
[00:16:06] certainly in Israel, in the Middle East, and I think even in American politics. Mhm. Okay. Freeberg's a little bit of a nuanced take on that, but I said the rise of Hamas was the biggest political surprise. You know, Hamas is a self-proclaimed political party that was thrust to the center of geopolitics and domestic social issues across the West after October 7th, which was I think probably a surprise to many that planned these attacks as
[00:16:33] well. Basically, it feels to me like Hamas is the pawn that crossed the chessboard and became a queen. It's an organization that, you know, had resourcing and was influenced by, you know, many have shown connections to Iran and and other wealthy states. And had very low attention levels prior to October 7th on a global basis, and post-October 7th now has recognition and sympathy and a great deal of interest in
[00:16:59] the the root cause of their party. So, really incredible surprise. I don't think anyone could have predicted this at the start of the year, that not just the attacks happened, but the resulting shift in the discourse and influence that's happened. Chamath, biggest political surprise of 2023. I'm going to go with a domestic choice and I think it's quite obvious. But the biggest political surprises are of Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
[00:17:28] I don't think anybody would have predicted that he would both drop out of the Democratic Party, run as an independent, and essentially collect He is in terms of favorability in the polls, he's the leading 2024 candidate right now. It's incredible. People like him. That's for sure. Incredible. And nobody would have predicted it. That's a really good one. What do we think he will get if he runs as an independent, just percentage-wise?
[00:17:55] Ross Perot as a third-party candidate got 19%. You think better than 19%? Because the the country is much more fragmented today. There's a lot more protest votes today. There's just a lot of reasons where RFK can garner a lot of support and build a plurality among centrists. That wasn't possible when Perot was running because when he ran you have to you have to remember like this the country was in a very different