[01:00:57] incredible. In single-person efforts can yield what historically has required six, 12, or more people to do using co-pilot tools and AI. So software development is accelerated, new products, and entire companies can be built by single individual at very low cost building totally customized software. So from what I've seen, it's not widely adopted, these these capabilities as you guys probably have seen as well. It's
[01:01:23] starting to be, but just imagine once the majority of people are using these co-piloting tools to write software and start to learn how to use these tools, it's really going to increase productivity globally as it finds its way into every business and everyone can become an entrepreneur and so on. So, it's it's incredible to see. I too, Sachs, was looking at the issue of DEI and I framed mine as DEI dying and meritocracy thriving. That was the
[01:01:48] best trend for me. So, we are once again simpatico, you and I. DEI dying and meritocracy thriving. Nicely done. You really are proving your a centrist. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think or I just listened to MLK's speech and I thought, that seems like the most logical thing to do. Yeah, you're right. Absolutely, 100%. 100%. We figured this out some time ago. Yeah, I don't know why we have to rehash it. Okay, 2023, worst trend.
[01:02:14] I'll lead it off. I had three here of worst trends. Number one, anti-Semitism. Absolutely disgusting and horrible. Two, Trump's rehabilitation. We'll just leave it at that. And then three, people of low moral character using the freedom of speech movement to whitewash their horrible personal behavior. Yes, I'm talking about Alex Jones to all the mids in the comments. Sachs, what was the worst trend for you? You
[01:02:37] had to have three, didn't you? Well, I'm going to go with anti-Semitism. Those are my two two runners-up. fair enough. Yeah. I think you guys will like my worst trend. It is the metastasizing national debt. This chart really makes it clear. You can see here the national debt as a function of deficit and revenues and it's a upside-down hockey stick. Jesus. If a company could produce user growth that looked like this, I would invest
[01:03:02] all day long. However, this is not growth. This is basically how much we owe. And it is a bipartisan problem. It's been going on for really 20 plus years, but it is getting worse and worse under Biden. Yeah. Eight trillion added to the deficit under Trump and looks like five to six trillion under Biden. Well, you know, we did have a COVID We did have meltdown where the economy was down 30% year-over-year, so The tax cuts and
[01:03:31] COVID, yeah. Both parties supported that bailout and in hindsight it was excessive. Yeah. Biden's quote-unquote stimulus was passed on straight party lines after COVID was already over. Yeah. So, I think we should just make sure to apportion the blame correctly. But like I said, bipartisan problem. Yeah, I agree. Bipartisan and Trump did a very ill-timed tax cut before COVID, so it's a double hit. If you want to compare it, in eight
[01:03:55] years Obama added eight trillion, so it was one trillion a year. These new guys getting close to two trillion per year. So, they doubled the velocity of spending. Just completely disastrous. Chamath, what's the worst trend for you? I just think it's the the general state of affairs amongst our young people, our 20-year-olds and our 30-year-olds, I think are really struggling. And it's gotten worse. I'll give you two
[01:04:24] examples. Here, you see on your screen, this year, 158,000 more Americans died than expected, which is more than all the wars combined in Vietnam. And when you look at where those death rates are, those death rates were coming from 35 to 44-year-olds, which was up 26% and 25 to 34-year-olds, which is up 20% above pre-COVID levels, and all we can point to from the government establishment is that it's smoking and a
[01:04:53] bad diet, which doesn't really hang together. And then the second trend is when you look at just general marriage rates amongst these same cohort of people, it's meaningfully worse than every cohort above it. So, just societally, these folks are not tracking. In whatever dimension you want to measure sort of like happiness, fulfillment, stability, safety, something is meaningfully wrong in these cohorts of people. And we owe it to them
[01:05:21] to figure it out. The one thing you missed there, uh Chamath, in the Western world at least, 36% increase in suicide over the past two decades. So, a lot of It's another one. So, that might be the main one, I think, in this is the the mental health issues are acute. Okay, we have Friedberg you're left for the worst trend. The Bestie Award for worst trend of 2023, what do you got? I don't know. I had one, I'm going to
[01:05:42] change it on the fly. I'm going to go with the normalization of spending. I think it's probably the worst trend. Like, it's, you know, it used to be a big deal. Remember when the TARP program happened in '08 and it was an incredible single line item of $800 billion to support the Troubled Asset Relief effort to try and keep the economy stable by buying up all of this failing debt and supporting all of these equities and keeping these
[01:06:09] businesses going. And now it's like $100 billion for this, uh trillions for that. It's like we've normalized spending and COVID just made it worse. So, to your guys's point earlier about the acceleration of spending, once you spend a dollar, you think it's okay to spend a dollar, and then next time you spend two, it's not that bad, it's only a dollar more. And the next time you spend five, it's only three bucks more. And suddenly, it becomes
[01:06:31] normal. And this normalization catches up to us. I've harped on this enough, so I won't go into it too much, but I think that's the worst trend. Who did you uh change from? What was your What was your original? My original was the merging of the oppressor-oppressed ideologies that are in diametric opposition to each other. I just found this more ironic than the worst trend, I think, which is like LGBTQ groups that were pro-Hamas, that
[01:06:57] were marching and supporting Hamas, which is anti-LGBTQ. It was just so mind-blowing to me to see some of the behavior over the last couple of months that made absolutely no sense and it shows how little first principle thinking people are actually doing about the things that they're standing up for. Standing up for a free Palestine is one kind of point, but being pro-Hamas when Hamas would have a responsibility of eradicating people
[01:07:28] like you is just is just nuts to me. So I there's just some of the stuff that I've seen where the oppressor oppressed ideology is is trained to fit everything even if it makes absolutely no sense. So it's just really frustrating to see. Okay, now we go on to a little casual the bestie awards for 2023 favorite media. Favorite media new things that came out in the media could be a video game, book, music, or a TV show. I'll
[01:07:56] lead us off here just get it out of the way real quick. For me Succession finale extraordinary one of the best pieces of television ever made. And my sleeper was The Bear season 2 very niche show on FX. I think I turned a lot of you on to it. And season 2 had an episode episode 5 which is the forks episode in which Carmie sends Richie to intern at a very elite restaurant and he's charged with polishing silverware and Garrett and him get into
[01:08:25] it. Why am I doing all this stupid stuff? And he just tells him listen every day here is a freaking Super Bowl and it's just a great great amazing episode of television with extraordinary performances and writing Chamath. Did you have any favorite media this year? Anything that Taylor Swift did this year was White hot. You're a Swiftie. She is a tour de force. She's incredible and she's a genius. What can you say? Nothing. Thanks.
[01:08:55] I'm going to use my spot to draw attention to some podcasts that you may not have heard of. Some geopolitics and world affairs podcast, so the probably my my number one is The Duran with Alexander Mercouris and Alex Christoforou. I'd also give honorable mention to Judge Napolitano's podcast and Colonel Daniel Davis. I have found these three podcasts to be quite useful in understanding what's happening in the rest of the world.
[01:09:23] And I found their reporting and analysis to be more accurate than anything you're going to get in the mainstream media. Free break, any favorite media for you? As we get close to wrapping here. I recently read a book that I liked. I don't know if I talked about it called The Idea Factory on the history of Bell Labs and the great age of American innovation. Strongly recommend it. I had no idea how much this Bell Labs institution
[01:09:47] touched modern life from radar to the transistor to the nuclear bomb to computing even information theory was developed inside of Bell Labs. It was an incredible organization that took its roots in an institutionalized monopoly which then enabled them to have one customer that was always a built-in customer but gave them the freedom and the resourcing to build all of these great things. And for anyone that wants
[01:10:12] to say that monopolies stifle innovation, I encourage you to read this book because it really says the opposite may be true. That a monopoly enables investment in long-term thinking and long-term ideas that you can never otherwise see. So I give it to that. I also had a softer one. Have you guys ever watched Bobby Alt's podcast? I found this so funny this year. You guys ever seen it? Her interview with Drake is hilarious. It's
[01:10:35] so funny. So she interviewed Drake, she's interviewed Cuban Oh yes, I know who you're talking about. The the deadpanned Yeah, the deadpanned. So she's got this like holy disinterested persona and it totally encapsulates like a Gen Z like a personality in a way that you don't get in any other media. It's really and she's hilarious when she does these interviews. And she's very unique like a Andy Kaufman or Jim Carrey like
[01:10:58] in that sense like unique in how she does this. I just think like we'll see if the stick lasts. Like she may end up kind of being tired soon and see if she has a second act. interview was really good. The one with Cuban I had two problems with it. One, they sat on the ground and then two, Cuban's feet were really dirty. Did you see the one with Shaq? And so I was like, bro, like just keep the shoes on and just you
[01:11:19] know one was hilarious. But anyway, she's she's got great content. It's it's hit or miss by the way, I'll also say it's not consistent. Hit or miss, but I don't know. I just found her to be a little bit of a a unique standout in um in content this year. Everyone's kind of me too, me too. It looks the same. She she stood out a bit for me. In that vein, have you seen Ziwe? Z I W E No. She is a woman who interviews
[01:11:42] people and then she asks people very uncomfortable questions about race. Like how many black friends do you have? Name them. And it is hilarious. It is like the greatest bit ever. Ziwe Shout out to Ziwe. And since we went there on on Who who's seen it? You saw it, Chamath? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you're on TikTok, you'll see it because she just had like Yeah, she just has anybody in pop culture on it. the George Santos on? She had George
[01:12:08] Santos on the interview. Yeah. Wow. And it was just so Incredible. crazy. On the podcasting front, shout out to our friend Gwyneth Paltrow. If you don't listen to the Goop podcast, she does like interviews every other time. Really good. Red Scare, another great alternative podcast I like to listen to. From the dirtbag left as they call it. And shout out Preet Bharara's cafeinsidercafe.com. All right. I think Is this the end,
[01:12:36] producer Nick? Are we here? Did we make it? Last one. Last one. We have a special award here. The self-immolation award. This has been named after Rudy Giuliani. So Rudy Giuliani self-immolation award. And I this is a tough one to give this year Sachs. Who do you have because this could be quite self-referential here. Go. I am going to name Liz Magill, the now former president of the University of Pennsylvania. Huh. Who
[01:13:07] So well done. had been vomiting on herself for 2 months in the aftermath of October 7th before she even appeared at that congressional hearing with the presidents of Harvard and MIT. Mhm. She answered what was clearly a moral question with a tone-deaf legalistic answer Mhm. saying that advocacy of genocide against Jews depends on context falls into question whether one is smart enough to be a university president.
[01:13:31] It's not a job that demands that much intelligence, but it does require an instinct for knowing when and how to cover your own ass. When she was finally forced to step down, it felt like a mercy killing. Yeah. Wasn't she the one smirking, too? Yeah. Wasn't she the one She had the awkward smirk. That was what I found the most appalling was the awkward smirks. Yep. Chamath, who let themself on fire most of all this year? Who Who poured
[01:13:54] gasoline over their heads and just lit up a stogie? I think it's the brand and reputation of the Ivies. I think that there was irreparable harm done. Well done. Yes. We've had generations now that have been taught that that is where we send our best and brightest kids. But it turns out that they're getting indoctrinated into some very kind of extreme rhetoric that then produces these incapable first principles
[01:14:20] thinkers that will be the destruction of our society if we don't fix it. So, I think Harvard applications were down 17% already. I expect that trend across the Ivies to go way up. I expect contributions to go down. I expect governments to ratchet down their spending in those schools, and I expect some folks to try to take away their nonprofit status. So, I think that we are going to reallocate the brand equity of the Ivy's to good schools.
[01:14:59] And we will know what the good schools are based on their independence, their ability to churn out first principles thinkers, and their respect for freedom of speech without being moral idiots. Friedberg, what do you got? That's well said, Chamath. Ivy League presidents. Okay. Well done. No no need to add too much more there, I guess. You know, I was torn here between the namesake of this very award. If you missed it, Rudy
[01:15:29] Giuliani had a $150 million judgment against him maybe 2 weeks ago for slandering two poor innocent people in his electoral scam that he ran with Trump. And he I think is going to get indicted next year for these fake electorates. So, follow the fake electorates one. But that was a close one for me because Kanye West also lit himself on fire the past year with the Adidas contract and his anti-Semitism, getting kicked off
[01:15:53] Twitter X. But I feel like that was mental illness, and I think Rudy Giuliani is just stupid. So, I give it to Rudy Giuliani, the namesake of this award. And I hope Kanye West that, J Cal, is I'm not going to defend him or his actions at all. However, I do think I do think that judgment was excessive and it's part of a pattern of ridiculous judgments that we see when you have, for example, a DC jury pool judging a conservative or a Republican
[01:16:25] whose politics they disagree with. The plaintiffs only asked for $48 million. The jury awarded three times that. It's an excessive award. I think a few million dollars as a penalty would have been a perfectly nice award. I think to bankrupt the man, which is what you're talking about, is becoming a bit of a pile on. And I'm all in favor of Rudy being the butt of jokes until the point where really you're talking about
[01:16:50] destroying his life. I think it's gone way too far. Yeah, these are words are curious in how large they are. They all get appealed though, and they all come down. So, I'm sure that'll come down by some massive percentage in the near future. This has been the year-end episode. Can you believe it? We made it another year, guys. Here we are at the end of 2023. We'll do our predictions next week, so you'll get our
[01:17:12] amazing predictions for 2024 in the next episode. Any closing thoughts on the year we just had? Freeberg, how you feeling here at the end of the year? Are you hopeful? Are you cheery? Are you sad? Are you excited? I've been up since 5:00 a.m. and I just drank beers, so I'm pretty tired. You're okay. But with respect, that's kind of how the whole year feels, actually. Feel like I Exhausted? Yeah, I just got up early,
[01:17:38] cranked through the day, had some beer, and I'm ready for a nap. But I'm I'm probably more optimistic going into 2024 than I was going into 2023 cuz that's on a personal basis, and I think, yeah, there's just a lot going on today in the world. Yeah, it's complex, isn't it? I do think as long as we embrace the enlightenment and don't embrace the dark ages, we we stand a shot at keeping progress alive, and I think that's the the the
[01:18:06] the defining characteristics of human civilization is progress, and that's I I think ultimately resolves all the conflicts and other things. We just got to keep it alive. Well said. Chamath, how are you feeling here as we wrap up 2023 and looking into 2024? I think 2022 and 2023 have been looking back, the most important 2 years of my professional career. I think I benefited, like we all I think I think all four of us could say this,