[00:30:25] All right, there you have it, folks. If you're going to make Bud Light, people just want to drink the damn beer. They're not interested in your politics. All right, here we go. Biggest business surprise of 2023. Who do you got, Sachs? Who was your biggest business surprise of 2023? I think it was the Fed's bank term funding program or BTFP in response to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and the regional banking
[00:30:50] crisis. Mhm. As you may recall, it wasn't just SVB, there were several dominoes in the regional banking system that fell. It was SVB, Signature, First Republic, and even in Europe, Credit Suisse basically fell apart all because of the sudden spike in interest rates. A lot of people tried to blame VCs for this, J Cal. Yeah, I remember. Even you and me took took some heat. Yeah. Uh the truth is that if the dominoes had fallen in a slightly
[00:31:16] different order, no one would have thought to blame VCs for this. It was obviously the fact that rates had spiked up and these banks got caught offsides because their deposit base is volatile and they had loaded up on government bonds at a 1% interest and then the value of those bonds plummeted. The Fed then stepped in to prevent this from turning into a contagion. That was where the BTFP came in and I'm ambivalent about it because I
[00:31:45] think that we don't know the long-term consequences of the Fed basically providing this liquidity to the banking system. However, it's very clear to me that there was a regional banking crisis underway and the Fed stepping in, I think probably saved us from having a recession this year. Amazing. So, the Fed there. I picked Facebook for my biggest surprise this year. They changed the name of the company 2 years ago to Meta. They were pouring
[00:32:12] tens of billions of dollars into VR, which nobody wanted to use. The CEO was focused on the wrong thing, but they turned it around. The stock dropped to 90 and Zuckerberg, I guess, didn't want to lose and so he laid off tens of thousands of employees, said every no more middle managers, everybody's got to get to work, and they doubled down on their existing businesses, and they've made some great progress on AI. So, my biggest business
[00:32:37] surprise was the resurgence of Zuckerberg and Facebook. Chamath, who did you have for your biggest business surprise? I'll pick J. Powell and the Fed capitulation. I think that I've been saying for a while that rates will be higher for longer. For quite a while now. And I was really surprised when J. Powell had this press conference in December in early December and just basically capitulated and just said, "You know what guys, we're going
[00:33:07] to be cutting probably three times next year." That was effectively the gist of what he said. And immediately the 10-year basically just completely changed course and it went from almost at 5% to below 4% within a matter of two and a half or three weeks. So, and then the stock market has basically done nothing but go straight up. Hmm. That's a huge surprise to me because I think now what the setup is for 2024
[00:33:34] is basically we will melt up up until the first cut and then there'll probably be some real selling. And I I would not have predicted that. The markets have become a lot more accommodative as a result. I didn't expect that. So, J. Powell really I think surprised a lot of us. He could have been more tempered but he did essentially decide to give away the playbook in the last month of the year here. And it's important for everybody to
[00:34:03] understand the Fed acts independently of the administration. It's just a coincidence, correct Sachs, that their cuts are going to come just in time for Biden economics. And if it happens to go up in the next nine months, that has nothing to do with the Biden administration who might benefit from that if the economy goes back. Jason, Nick, I have an I have a quote that I sent Nick. This is a This is what Larry Summers said and I just think it's
[00:34:27] such an unbelievable quote that is just worth internalizing. If you just start reading here, so I prefer the Volcker-Greenspan approach, which is to recognize that the Fed is a little bit like the Delphic Oracles. People regarded them as omniscient and omnipotent, but they were in fact neither. So, the Oracles kept their pronouncements vague and oracular, not concrete and specific because it was impossible to be concrete and specific
[00:34:54] without being wrong frequently and undercutting credibility. Sure, I mean, that is just the perfect Keep it general, yeah. Keep it general. of what probably should have happened in these pressers. And this was an example where it was the exact opposite and the market just took it and said, "I'm off to the races." Just to agree with Adam buttress it. It's not only the fact that they gave this guidance this year, as you remember back
[00:35:17] when we started having inflation, the Fed still stuck to the story that it would not be raising rates for some extended period of time. And a lot of these banks that had problems basically because they bought too many long-term government bonds, a lot of those bonds were bought during that period when the Fed was assuring them it wasn't going to be jacking up rates. Mhm. So, if the Fed hadn't misled them, maybe they would have made better
[00:35:41] risk decisions. Yeah. So, it works both ways. Freeberg, got a business surprise for 2023 for the audience here at the Bestie Awards? The biggest surprise was Sam Altman's Alston and return all in a weekend. So, that was kind of crazy. So, I just give it to that. Nothing else to be said. Okay, the flip flop, love it. Okay, best science breakthrough. This is everybody's favorite Also the time when Sachs goes and takes
[00:36:02] a leak. 2023, biggest science breakthrough. I've got one. You got one, Sachs? You're awake during the show? Sachs, go ahead. What's the biggest science breakthrough for you, Sachs? Well, according to NASA, there's a new look at Uranus. That's right, J Cal. That's right, J Cal. These are never-before-seen deep penetrating shots of Uranus. How deep and penetrating are these? Very deep, very penetrating from the James Webb Space Telescope. Uh Freebird,
[00:36:31] when your anus gets probed this deeply, what's your takeaway? What What's the feeling you get in this deep probing of your anus? All wonder, mystery. All wonder? Yeah. Well, That's a space colonoscopy. Something gets moved within. Absolutely. I'm going to save you for last, Freebird. Chamath, you have one? Yeah, I think that this unfortunately did not get nearly the attention it deserves, but I'm going to pick the CRISPR FDA-approved CRISPR
[00:36:59] treatment of sickle cell anemia. I think that this is just an incredibly important breakthrough. And so, you know, sickle cell basically is just a condition where the shape of your red blood cells change. It causes a lot of very painful inflammation and damage. Disproportionately affects the black population, African-American population. And so, now there's an approved therapy, which goes in and makes the gene edits
[00:37:22] and fixes these folks. So, congratulations to Vertex and CRISPR, and I I think it's just incredible. There was my big breakthrough was this brain decoder technology. We didn't talk about it here on the show, but this project was crazy. They They did MRI scans or fMRI scans of blood flow to different areas in the brain. They then had people listen to podcasts like The Moth, and they tracked individuals' brain activity
[00:37:51] with specific words that were said during the podcast. Then they had them repeat words. Then they attached it to a language model, GPT-1, I believe, and narrowed down what people were thinking. Then they had people think thoughts, and it started to use the predictive model of GPT-1 and combined it with what was happening in their brain chemistry. Now, this is a far away from being able to read people's minds, but for somebody
[00:38:15] who couldn't speak, let's say, the idea that you could think and then have your thoughts and the story you were telling actually come out of a computer just by thinking would be miraculous. Obviously, Neuralink does this with a direct connection. But fascinating work you've done here. Sach is still thinking about Uranus. He's He's going deep into Uranus right now. He's reading that paper. I can see it in his eyes.
[00:38:36] You guys know I got a colonoscopy? Thank goodness. How was it? I got I got it on a put you under? Tuesday. Yeah, but I got I didn't get the propofol. I got Demerol. I think Demerol. Oh, you got to go prop. I had like the twilight sedation. So, it's kind of like, you know, it was great. Don't get me wrong, but it was like 15-20 minutes. Like it was not But you were a kind of awake and lucid while they were through. Yeah. You woke up halfway
[00:39:01] through? Yeah. Huh. Did they give you a drink? A little red wine or anything? Nothing? No? No, they didn't talk to me. No, I I just saw the I saw the screen. I was like, what the heck? And then I just went back to sleep. Let me tell you, propofol, it's drip, drip, drip, and then you wake up 4 hours later. It's the most restful sleep you ever had. That's the way to go. No, dude. I had a I had a twilight 90 minutes, maybe.
[00:39:23] It's an hour, yeah. I had I had like a 20-minute twilight sedation. That was it. I asked them to go back up in there twice just to make sure. Freeberg, enough about Uranus. What was your biggest science surprise of '23? I know it's hard to surprise you. I know you guys want to hear some crazy specific thing, but I I actually just said that there were too many breakthroughs with machine learning models with AI this
[00:39:46] year to list. LLMs that can run on small desktop machines that are open source that outperform all models that were in existence even a few months prior. It highlights the leaps and bounds of this trajectory of of development in models. And there's other specific examples like we talked about DeepMind's graph cast model, which is a a graph neural network on the show. And obviously all the generative models in imagery and movies and music, but
[00:40:11] it's just such an extraordinary time to see us leverage our combined capabilities to drive these extraordinary gains. is pace of language models or the pace of AI development? Just all these breakthroughs in aggregate. I mean, I I I I think it's it's hard it's hard to pay attention to anyone. There's a constellation of change underway. It's incredible. Okay. Now it's time for our biggest flash in the pan. Who is your biggest flash in the pan,
[00:40:35] Chamath? Oh my gosh, this is a Well, I'll I'll tell you what I could be business, it could be society, it could be pop culture. I wrote down SBF. Okay. I think like from what looked like a too good to be wunderkind, frankly just turned out to be an Adderall addicted grifter. And he stole from user accounts. Sacks, I hope that doesn't hit too close to home. Who is yours? Same ballpark. I said effective altruism. The EA movement took a big hit
[00:41:07] with SBF. I would have thought that'd be enough to polish it off, but then we had the OpenAI board oust Sam Altman, like we talked about. Apparently, that was driven by a couple of their non-profit board members who were effective altruists. I think the failure of that whole debacle will put the nail in the coffin of the EA movement. Okay, Freeberg, you got a flash in the pan for 2023. the obvious breakthrough in superconducting room
[00:41:37] temperature material LK-99. Yeah. It came and it went. Everyone thought it was going to change the world. Couple weeks later, couldn't be replicated, was disproven ultimately. And for a hot minute there, everyone thought the world was going to change. So it was super exciting to see room temperature superconductivity and the search for room temperature superconducting materials get so much attention. As I mentioned,
[00:41:58] it's something I've thought a lot about since I was 13 years old. So it's super cool, but didn't happen. Came and it went. I went with a wildcard here. I said George Santos, the diva drama queen and congressman who slayed from 2023 to 2023. And election campaign funds to buy designer clothes and get Botox. So, he asked Queen And Sephora. And Sephora. Not bad. Not bad. He asked Queen just making bank over at Cameo.
[00:42:29] Going to have him come in. He's going to be a He's going to do a quick cameo here on All-In podcast. All right. Best CEO. Your best CEO. Best CEO. I'll go first. I'll go first. I haven't got first yet. I picked a wild card here. I went Taylor Swift. $4 billion in revenue from the tour and the merchandise and the movie and everything. Each tour stop generates $90 million for the city she lands in. She's getting 85%. She went direct to
[00:42:57] movie theaters with that concert movie and made a quarter billion dollars. She's hands-down the best CEO of 2023 for me. Who you got, Chamath? Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft. I just think the gross tonnage of market cap dollars he added in 2023 plus figuring out how to close Activision plus retaining maximum optionality with OpenAI is just a master class in heads-down management. Well done. Sachs, who do you got?
[00:43:33] I have Jensen Huang, CEO of Nvidia and king of the GPU. We talked about the Magnificent Seven, but none was more magnificent than Nvidia, whose stock is up 235% and earnings and forecast keep blowing doors off. Jensen has been planning this moment for many years before the whole AI frenzy took hold and Nvidia is now reaping the benefit of that. Who do you got? Friedberg. I give it to Sam Altman because I don't think any
[00:44:01] individual has generated more attention on a private company and and effect on the world and the future than Sam Altman and OpenAI. And I think that he's been aggressive in raising capital. This guy can raise like he can raise. And then he overbets on people. He he finds talent. He gives them extraordinary comp packages, gets them to come and work on this this extraordinary effort, and then gets them to deliver results. He pushes the
[00:44:27] limits, he pushes the boundaries. Even beyond what's comfortable for his board members. Clearly there you know there there comes the good and the bad. And then even after he got ousted by his board, his entire employee base threw a coup and got him back. And sure everyone's got their economic motivations to see that happen. But I still think that the setup was you know largely his his work. So he does deserve credit for
[00:44:50] that. So all in I think it's it's an incredible year for Sam Altman. Now we move on to 2023 best investor. Chamath, who was your best investor for 2023 here at the Bestie Awards? It was a continuation of the last couple of years. But it's the pod shops and specifically Citadel. So I give that award to Ken Griffin. You know pod shops I think have really become the hallway bully of the public capital markets and Citadel is the kingpin.
[00:45:20] They returned $7 billion to their investors in 23. I think if you go back since 2020 they've returned more than 20 billion. They generated you know 15% very steady returns uncorrelated to the market. It's just a machine. I mean it's incredible it's an incredible business that he's built. So he is there's nobody close. Sacks, what do you got? I've got Bill Ackman here for timing the bond market perfectly. He shorted bonds for most of the year
[00:45:50] making hundreds of millions of dollars. And then on October 23rd he announced that he was covering his positions and that it was too risky to stay short in bonds and he was going long. And that very day was the high point of the 10-year bond yield. The market made a bottom on October 27th. Since then, yields have plummeted, which means that the value of bonds has soared. And the best part of it is that Ackman
[00:46:11] is using his new FU money to take on Ivy League university presidents for their woken DEI double standards, grifting, and plagiarism. Well done. All right. Free bird, what do you got? I also said Ackman for his timing on the the Treasury trade. I was right there with you guys, except I wanted to go with the wild card. I am astounded by the growth of TikTok. And I just worked backwards. Arthur Dantchik, who I've never met, from
[00:46:35] Susquehanna International Group, referred to as SIG in the industry, still owns, according to sources, 15% of this company, which could be worth three, four, 500 billion dollars when it goes out. And despite all the saber-rattling, the CCP has not divested from it, even though Trump and Biden both said they were going to try to do that. And ByteDance was caught spying on American journalists using their TikTok data. So,
[00:47:02] the fact that that investment is still in place, to me, is extraordinary. So, congratulations to them, but I'd sell it quick. All right. Now we move on. We're moving quickly here. 2023, best turnaround. Who's your best turnaround, Chamath? This was like 3 years in the making, but I'll give it to Novo Nordisk. I think the amount of attention that Novo has gotten for Ozempic, Wegovy, and Rybelsus in 2023 was incredible. Mhm.
[00:47:26] But you have to go back to the last decade, where the first 5 years there was just not much activity, and they had to maintain their investment, stay strong, stay focused, and then starting in about 2019, the stock has been about a four or five X in the last four or five years. And I think these semaglutide GLP-1s are here to stay. They're transformational on society. So, that was an enormous task of corporate focus. So,