[00:15:38] quieter than it had been in two decades. And those words obviously proved proved very ill-timed, but he wasn't alone in thinking that. I think almost everybody was really surprised by this attack. I think until then, the Middle East seemed to be on a path of progress with the Abraham Accords being negotiated between Israel and several Gulf monarchies. And I think that October 7th has really changed the political paradigm,
[00:16:06] certainly in Israel, in the Middle East, and I think even in American politics. Mhm. Okay. Freeberg's a little bit of a nuanced take on that, but I said the rise of Hamas was the biggest political surprise. You know, Hamas is a self-proclaimed political party that was thrust to the center of geopolitics and domestic social issues across the West after October 7th, which was I think probably a surprise to many that planned these attacks as
[00:16:33] well. Basically, it feels to me like Hamas is the pawn that crossed the chessboard and became a queen. It's an organization that, you know, had resourcing and was influenced by, you know, many have shown connections to Iran and and other wealthy states. And had very low attention levels prior to October 7th on a global basis, and post-October 7th now has recognition and sympathy and a great deal of interest in
[00:16:59] the the root cause of their party. So, really incredible surprise. I don't think anyone could have predicted this at the start of the year, that not just the attacks happened, but the resulting shift in the discourse and influence that's happened. Chamath, biggest political surprise of 2023. I'm going to go with a domestic choice and I think it's quite obvious. But the biggest political surprises are of Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
[00:17:28] I don't think anybody would have predicted that he would both drop out of the Democratic Party, run as an independent, and essentially collect He is in terms of favorability in the polls, he's the leading 2024 candidate right now. It's incredible. People like him. That's for sure. Incredible. And nobody would have predicted it. That's a really good one. What do we think he will get if he runs as an independent, just percentage-wise?
[00:17:55] Ross Perot as a third-party candidate got 19%. You think better than 19%? Because the the country is much more fragmented today. There's a lot more protest votes today. There's just a lot of reasons where RFK can garner a lot of support and build a plurality among centrists. That wasn't possible when Perot was running because when he ran you have to you have to remember like this the country was in a very different
[00:18:17] place psychologically than it is right now. Yeah, I too had third-party candidates as being my biggest surprise. I didn't give it to a specific one. I was debating these third-party candidates against the GOP not being able to field a better option than Trump. But I think I'm going to go again with third-party candidates. But I'll include Dean Phillips in that breaking ranks. I'll include Vivek just a very young, very smart individual
[00:18:42] capturing people's imagination. Third-party candidates for me is the biggest surprise and and I do think it could have a meaningful impact. If you're right that he gets over 19%, who does that Chamath, in your mind, who does that benefit and who does it hurt if the candidates are Biden and Trump? It hurts Biden the most. You believe that? Okay. What about you, Sax? Who do you think it hurts the most? Unclear right now. I mean I think on the
[00:19:07] issues I can see a lot of populist voters wanting to go with RFK. But on the other hand, maybe he does peel away some Democratic Party voters. So, I'm not sure, to be honest. Yeah, I've heard this before. Any any thoughts Freeberg on that? What's the question? If RFK were to get, as Chamath thinks, more than Perot, so that's 20% or more of the popular vote, who is that going to harm and who's it going to hurt? Trump or Biden? I saw a
[00:19:32] Gallup survey that showed that there's a real shot at more than 40% of Americans being interested in the third party. And so, I I'm I'm I'm sorry, I could be totally wrong on that, but I'm pretty sure I saw that and it really kind of resonated with me. And I think our discourse here and, you know, obviously conversations with our friend group, Nick might have something on this. Support for third US political party up
[00:19:56] to 63%. This is the Gallup data. Yeah, so I was right. I think that this is one of the most kind of profound shift in American politics, at least in our lifetimes, that the right has gone very right, the left has gone very left, and they've been so rooted in identity politics that you can't really see any of these issues kind of finding compromise and finding a way to lean across the aisle and get things done. And I think that's
[00:20:21] where a lot of people are just fed up. So, I would love to see a third political party emerge and if RFK breaks the dam on this, it would be fantastic. It will take, as these things always do, a number of years for a group of independents to coalesce around what that third party looks like and how it's going to be governed and so on. But this could be a really interesting shift in the dynamics of American politics. So, pretty pretty
[00:20:45] cool. I'm not into politics in the US that much, but pretty cool I think opportunity to reframe, you know, how do we want to build America going forward and thinking about using a new party as a way to do that. And we haven't even heard of No Labels, the third party platform. They're probably going to announce Joe Manchin any day now. And so, that could change things as well. So, that's a very interesting take.
[00:21:08] problem that we have, this may sound really dumb, but I think it's true in launching a third party, is a viable name. Mhm. Mhm. I think it's the most important boundary condition to have a sustainable third party is a is a good name. Like an iconic person. The chairman's party. Like whatever we call this party. of the party, not the person they feel yeah. labels is a terrible name. That's a terrible name. Actually
[00:21:36] The chairman's party is perfect. terrible. Green party's terrible. The Patriot party, Freedom party, they're all terrible because they all feel like they're rooted in some, you know, either conservative or liberal cause. There There's got to be some element of like what's the right decision on each on each topic, not necessarily, you know, how do we fight the identity politics. I think that's the key piece that's missing and I like the rational
[00:21:58] party. Like a party of rational individuals. to a degree, you know. Yeah. Branding Branding says What would you What would you call it? The third party? Republicans. People's Republic of I don't know. Saxistan? Chamath, do you have an idea for a name? I'm not going to comment on this for sure in FRONT OF YOU. CHAMATHLY BOO. Something brewing. J.K. Would you Would you have a name for a third party? You like the rational
[00:22:25] party? the rational party or something like that where it kind of evoked you know, people who were being thoughtful and were trying to make rational decisions in everybody's best interest, right? Something that was not about us versus them, abortion, or you know, DEI or ESG, just something focused more on getting things done. The The The Getting Things Done party. Something like that. Getting Things Done party. So, a bit on the nose, but better
[00:22:53] than the Derangement party. Yeah, absolutely. All right, let's keep going. Let's keep going. Here we go. Oh, man. Is that you trying to derail the show? I will not engage with that. All right, it's time for our biggest business winner. Biggest winner in business. Who you got, Chamath? Who's your biggest winner in business? I mean, I don't think this is even close. But, I think it's Elon Musk. Oh, huh? Three things, obviously, three different
[00:23:20] companies, but the rebasing of Twitter actually had an even more profound impact, I think, on Silicon Valley than it necessarily did on Twitter. Second was, I think, SpaceX has really turned a corner. Starlink is really at scale. Starship looks like it's viable. And then the third is Tesla really consolidated its leadership in EVs and batteries and battery technology and FSD. So, I think on the merits, it was not even
[00:23:52] close. Okay, Sachs, who you got? Who's your biggest business winner? The Magnificent Seven. The are the seven companies that accounted for almost all of the stock market gains this year. You can see it in this chart. It's about a 63% gap between the performance of the top names, top seven names in the S&P 500, and then the other 493 of them. I think that the S&P 493 had a 12% gain this year, which isn't bad, but it was
[00:24:24] dwarfed by the Magnificent Seven, which was almost 80%. Hm, incredible. All right, Sachs says the M7. Freeberg, who you got? Yeah, I'm going to pick one of the seven, which is Microsoft. Just a shot down the the middle of the fairway here. Despite only seeing, I think, roughly 8% top-line growth, the business saw its market cap grow by over a trillion dollars, 1.7 to 2.7 trillion this year. Just an incredible number. I mean, can
[00:24:48] you imagine if we ever said that 10 years ago, whether anyone would believe it? Consumer and enterprise strength and strategic strength, the the that they were able to close the Activision acquisition in this sort of regulatory environment. And then the strength that Satya showed and the the speed at which he acted during the OpenAI weekend debacle, where he set up this whole thing where he got Sam on board and was going to retain all
[00:25:10] this value that he was extracting from OpenAI in partnership, was I I think great leadership and cemented his his position and standing as being a really thoughtful, fast-acting, strategic leader for a business that's been around forever, but amazingly added a trillion of market cap in 12 months. So, I I just throw it to to Microsoft this year. It's very hard to kind of break that business apart and say, "Here's all the things that are
[00:25:34] wrong with it." It's just, you know, it's just moving. All right, very well done. We've got Elon Musk and worked then you worked there for a while? One year. At At Twitter? Or No, at Microsoft. Microsoft. Oh, Microsoft. One year. Did you work there for a while? No, I was locked up for 2 years in the Yammer deal. Yeah, I was a corporate vice president at Microsoft. Did you like it? Yeah, it was I mean, it's a high-quality
[00:25:55] company, for sure. I mean, I was like super active for 1 year because I was still in charge of I still had a P&L running Yammer, but then after 1 year, Yammer was sort of assimilated into the Borg, and I didn't have anything to do. I was kind of just like on call. Right, right. All right, I am going to talk my own book on this one and give it to Dara and the team at Uber. They got into the S&P 500, became profitable,
[00:26:20] planning stock buybacks. They resolved almost all of the regulatory res- issues, including getting the taxis in London to be on the app, which was their big adversary, and they were going to get kicked out of London, if you remember. It's a company that 5 years ago the press and the fake news were saying could never be profitable and was going to fail, and now it is the most successful new startup in the last
[00:26:45] cycle, bigger than everybody. And so, congratulations to the team over there. All right, biggest loser in business. The biggest loser, it's 2023. Freeberg, just so you know, last year your prediction was capital-intensive series B, C's, and D's of growth companies. Well done on that prediction. But give me, Freeberg, your actual. Who was your biggest loser in 2023? Oh, Sultan of Science. It's sort of tied up. Obviously, there's a tail to the effect,
[00:27:15] but it's VCs who deployed most of their capital in 2021. Obviously, it was the year where of venture capital deployments peaked. And what I've heard from institutional PEs this year is that, you know, not only will that vintage underperform, but it could torpedo as many as 50% of firms that are managing capital today in Silicon Valley, and it could switch the capital allocation model that reduces allocation to venture
[00:27:44] as an asset class significantly because of the torpedo that the 2021 vintage represents in performance. So, that was my biggest loser for the year. Good for me and Sachs because we were diligent during that time. All right, let's go to you, Sachs. Who's your biggest loser in business in 2023? My biggest business loser is Disney. It seems that every aspect of Disney's business did bad in 2023. I mean, all their major theatrical
[00:28:13] releases flopped. They missed a conservative backlash against its woke social stances. You may recall that the actress who played Snow White in the remake accused Prince Charming of being a stalker. I mean, there's a million examples. Even their their Marvel franchise suddenly had bombs. They had to fire Jonathan Majors who was doing a fantastic job playing Kang in an entire franchise arc. They're going to have to reset now
[00:28:38] because of a criminal conviction involving him. Disney Plus subscriptions fell off a cliff. Even attendance at its theme parks declined dramatically because they charged way too much for families to visit. And then finally, Bob Iger picked a fight with Elon Musk over advertising. Remember Elon publicly told Iger to GFY. Good for you. And yep. And tens of thousands of Disney Plus subscribers canceled their subscriptions because of that. And it
[00:29:03] all makes you wonder if Iger now wishes he had stayed retired. I, too, picked Disney. I put Disney and Warner Brothers. Uh both of them had their comic book franchises collapse simultaneously. On the on the Warner Brothers side and the DC side, the Flash and Justice League, everything came apart. Streaming was too expensive. And you didn't mention these uh horrific strikes that they had to deal with. And it feels like
[00:29:28] they had to give a ton of concessions. So, Disney was my biggest loser as well with Warner Brothers as their little brother. There are Chamath, we have a consensus there. Rare consensus between Sachs and I. Well, who did you have for your biggest loser in business? Well, you you guys partially win, okay? Because I'm going to have to agree with you guys, but I think the biggest loser in business was the go woke community who tried to
[00:29:55] synthetically and artificially use all these social movements as a way to drive revenue and just got totally burned. So, Disney, Bud, Target, and I think the statement from consumers is, "Look, just sell a product, stay in your lane, make a better and better product for us at lower and lower prices. And otherwise, just let the politicians and the voters decide social issues." And I think that was pretty clear.
[00:30:25] All right, there you have it, folks. If you're going to make Bud Light, people just want to drink the damn beer. They're not interested in your politics. All right, here we go. Biggest business surprise of 2023. Who do you got, Sachs? Who was your biggest business surprise of 2023? I think it was the Fed's bank term funding program or BTFP in response to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and the regional banking
[00:30:50] crisis. Mhm. As you may recall, it wasn't just SVB, there were several dominoes in the regional banking system that fell. It was SVB, Signature, First Republic, and even in Europe, Credit Suisse basically fell apart all because of the sudden spike in interest rates. A lot of people tried to blame VCs for this, J Cal. Yeah, I remember. Even you and me took took some heat. Yeah. Uh the truth is that if the dominoes had fallen in a slightly
[00:31:16] different order, no one would have thought to blame VCs for this. It was obviously the fact that rates had spiked up and these banks got caught offsides because their deposit base is volatile and they had loaded up on government bonds at a 1% interest and then the value of those bonds plummeted. The Fed then stepped in to prevent this from turning into a contagion. That was where the BTFP came in and I'm ambivalent about it because I
[00:31:45] think that we don't know the long-term consequences of the Fed basically providing this liquidity to the banking system. However, it's very clear to me that there was a regional banking crisis underway and the Fed stepping in, I think probably saved us from having a recession this year. Amazing. So, the Fed there. I picked Facebook for my biggest surprise this year. They changed the name of the company 2 years ago to Meta. They were pouring
[00:32:12] tens of billions of dollars into VR, which nobody wanted to use. The CEO was focused on the wrong thing, but they turned it around. The stock dropped to 90 and Zuckerberg, I guess, didn't want to lose and so he laid off tens of thousands of employees, said every no more middle managers, everybody's got to get to work, and they doubled down on their existing businesses, and they've made some great progress on AI. So, my biggest business
[00:32:37] surprise was the resurgence of Zuckerberg and Facebook. Chamath, who did you have for your biggest business surprise? I'll pick J. Powell and the Fed capitulation. I think that I've been saying for a while that rates will be higher for longer. For quite a while now. And I was really surprised when J. Powell had this press conference in December in early December and just basically capitulated and just said, "You know what guys, we're going