[00:45:20] They returned $7 billion to their investors in 23. I think if you go back since 2020 they've returned more than 20 billion. They generated you know 15% very steady returns uncorrelated to the market. It's just a machine. I mean it's incredible it's an incredible business that he's built. So he is there's nobody close. Sacks, what do you got? I've got Bill Ackman here for timing the bond market perfectly. He shorted bonds for most of the year
[00:45:50] making hundreds of millions of dollars. And then on October 23rd he announced that he was covering his positions and that it was too risky to stay short in bonds and he was going long. And that very day was the high point of the 10-year bond yield. The market made a bottom on October 27th. Since then, yields have plummeted, which means that the value of bonds has soared. And the best part of it is that Ackman
[00:46:11] is using his new FU money to take on Ivy League university presidents for their woken DEI double standards, grifting, and plagiarism. Well done. All right. Free bird, what do you got? I also said Ackman for his timing on the the Treasury trade. I was right there with you guys, except I wanted to go with the wild card. I am astounded by the growth of TikTok. And I just worked backwards. Arthur Dantchik, who I've never met, from
[00:46:35] Susquehanna International Group, referred to as SIG in the industry, still owns, according to sources, 15% of this company, which could be worth three, four, 500 billion dollars when it goes out. And despite all the saber-rattling, the CCP has not divested from it, even though Trump and Biden both said they were going to try to do that. And ByteDance was caught spying on American journalists using their TikTok data. So,
[00:47:02] the fact that that investment is still in place, to me, is extraordinary. So, congratulations to them, but I'd sell it quick. All right. Now we move on. We're moving quickly here. 2023, best turnaround. Who's your best turnaround, Chamath? This was like 3 years in the making, but I'll give it to Novo Nordisk. I think the amount of attention that Novo has gotten for Ozempic, Wegovy, and Rybelsus in 2023 was incredible. Mhm.
[00:47:26] But you have to go back to the last decade, where the first 5 years there was just not much activity, and they had to maintain their investment, stay strong, stay focused, and then starting in about 2019, the stock has been about a four or five X in the last four or five years. And I think these semaglutide GLP-1s are here to stay. They're transformational on society. So, that was an enormous task of corporate focus. So,
[00:47:57] I'll give the turnaround award to Novo Nordisk. Sacks, what you got? In light of what's happening right now in the crypto markets, I'm going to go with Solana. Oh. Wow. It began the year at about $9 a token. It's now at 92 as of this moment. Obviously, it's very volatile, but it's up roughly 10 X this year to date. And in light of the fact that various unscrupulous actors on the internet accuse some of us of of buying Solana at
[00:48:27] at a discount and dumping it on retail without any evidence, and that wasn't true. Let's just say that those of us who are still holding bags of Solana are very happy campers right now. Oh, bag holders. Bag holder for the win. Ooh. Estimates. Freeberg, who do you got? Biggest business turnaround? I give it to Dara and Uber. When he took over that business, I think it was an 8 to 9 billion dollar net loss in 2019.
[00:48:55] 5 billion dollar EBITDA run rate now. Incredible forecasting, incredible skill in forecasting the sensitivities in that business, by the way. Say more. Say more. And you know, obviously he's seen the market cap just this year grow from 50 billion to 126 billion as of today. So, give it to Dara for the big turnaround. Product sucks though, I will say. It's gotten expensive, hard to get an Uber, sit around wait forever. So,
[00:49:18] Dara, please fix that Otherwise, uh good job. Well done. I went with a one that you guys gave awards to in on all the previous awards. Sam Altman is all over this year's Besties. I I thought going from being fired for malfeasance to becoming a martyr, and then I'm the captain now. You can throw in the I'm the captain now meme right here, Nick, for the pod. In about 10 days, he captured three full news cycles, was
[00:49:46] named CEO of the year, and the palace intrigue, raising money for an Nvidia killer in the Middle East. I mean, this guy is like James Bond plus a CEO. So, what a great turnaround from fired to desired, Sam Altman. All right, let's go to our next one here. 2023, the worst company of the year. This is the company that is loathsome and horrible in our opinions. And it's That's all it is, folks. It's just four dudes' opinions. Sachs,
[00:50:17] in your opinion, what was the worst company of 2023? I'm going to go with Pfizer. Just last week, the Wall Street Journal had an exposé on the inner turmoil at Pfizer as its market cap has lost $140 billion in valuation 2023. By the way, that headline is ridiculous. Pfizer did not save the world. The reason why they are off so much is because of a massive drop in demand for Paxlovid and for COVID boosters. Apparently, people do not see the value
[00:50:52] in those products. They finally figured it out. I would say that the company is also suffering from a credibility crisis by not leveling with the public about the efficacy and safety of their vaccines. The CEO, Albert Bourla, was confronted in Davos by citizen journalists for this lack of transparency back in January of this year. And what's interesting is that if you read the Wall Street Journal piece, even his own employees are
[00:51:16] questioning Bourla's candor when he announced on a company-wide virtual town hall that the company was embarking on a cost-cutting effort. The chat room erupted in snark. Quote, "Future is bright, but you might get fired" is how one employee characterized Bourla's spin. This led another employee to reply, quote, "Dumpster fires are always bright." All right, Friedberg, worst company of 2023 for you. You have a
[00:51:42] worst company, Mux low sum? I do. I'm going to get through this without getting interrupted. The worst company of 2023 is Muyuan Food Stuff. This company is pure evil. It's got 137,000 employees. It's based in China. It's the world's largest slaughterer of pigs. Slaughters 2.1 million pigs per year with the world's largest pig farm near Nanyang where they basically take pigs from birth and breed them all the way through
[00:52:08] to slaughter. During their entire lives, these pigs never get to move more than a few inches. They live in these multi-story housing units that they never get to see sun or the light from the outside. Through their whole lives, they're kept separate from their families. Pigs are as smart as most dogs and even young children. And at the end of their very painful, awful existences, they're slaughtered and fed to a growing population.
[00:52:32] China consumes over a billion pigs a year. It's a horrific situation. So. That's the most loathsome company of 2023. Sounds delicious. I'm sorry, GUYS. DUDE. YOU WENT OFF CAMERA, DUDE. MAN. YOU you you were went off camera for you, Jacob. You started laughing. It's not a funny thing. laughing. That's why I started laughing. I mean, I had 15 jokes, but I'm not going to make any of them. Uh yeah, but none of us are for factory farming. It's
[00:53:04] it's horrible. Who is your worst company, Chamath? Come on, Chamath. Get in the game here. Who is your worst company? It's a tie between FTX and Silicon Valley Bank. Mhm. One stole customer accounts and the other one just was run by a CEO and a risk management infrastructure that really imperiled and almost imperiled an entire industry. There you go. For me, it was Fox News. They deceived their loyal customers by
[00:53:29] knowingly spreading fake news about voting machines. They wound up firing their most loved host and our fifth bestie, Tucker Carlson, and they paid record-setting fines for misleading the public and creating massive division in our country. And they're facing an even bigger lawsuit, a $2.7 billion lawsuit with another election technology company that will happen in 2025. Pension funds are now suing this loathsome company
[00:53:58] because they lost so much money for them. So, my worst company of the year is Fox News. All right. Sacks, you have something to say? I'm sorry. I saw you going for the microphone there. I'm not going to dissent Fox after they fired Tucker. Exactly. Exactly. I mean, that's why I put it in there for you. I do think the judgments are the magnitudes of the judgments are ridiculous. Hm, okay. Now it's time. We're going to have a
[00:54:21] little bit of fun here. Best meme. Your best meme. Fun stuff. I'll start it off this year. I loved the Boston cop on a slide. I don't know if you guys have seen this one, but it went super viral. They've made millions of versions of it. There's just a cop in Boston going down a slide.
[00:54:43] And the backstory here, bunch of cops were told there's a slide that's too dangerous in Boston. One of them tried to do their duty and confirm that it was in fact dangerous, and he got injured coming down the slide. And now anytime something is going off the track, whether it's a market or a company, you play that clip. Sacks, you're a master of memes. What do you got for us this year in the 2023 Bestie Awards? Well, I I think the meme
[00:55:10] of the year had to be the GFI. Elon's answer to Bob Iger's attempt to blackmail him. Nick, can but we need to see this in the GIF version. The way the hand motions are, it's this, then this, and then it comes back in. Good for you. It's like a conductor of an orchestra. Just a standard good for you. Chamath, did you have a Did you have a favorite, Chamath, a favorite meme of 2023? Yeah, Nick, if you want to just throw it up there.
[00:55:38] I'm a journalist and it's a kid. No, it's not a journalism. I'm a journalist. What what is this talking about? I think it's it's what we all know and I think it was further exposed this year just the the brazen naked ambition and corrupt nature of the mainstream media. Hey Jason, you said it really well and I and it really made an impact on me, so I want to give you credit. We are all citizen journalists investigative
[00:56:05] journalists now. And I think that that's true. I think we all have a responsibility to pick the information source and to vet it. Yeah. And never been more true than this year. You got to have multiple sources triangulate the truth for yourself. But yeah, I wouldn't trust the mainstream media at this point, you know, as but one of many sources. Freeberg, got a favorite meme? Got a favorite meme? No, I didn't put
[00:56:32] anything on this. Okay, you gave us 6 minutes on pigs being killed, but you can't come up with one meme. Okay. You can't come up with a meme. Come on, man. I think it's kind of funny actually. It's kind of funny. He has no meme. He's memeless. Wait, we need to play the wah wah wah music. All right, best new tech. Best new tech. We got to keep things moving. Last year it was fusion and GPT across the board. This year I'll just get all mine out of
[00:57:00] the way real quick. I'm going to go with something more specific. ChatGPT's app has been extraordinary. It now has 4.0 in it. It has DALL-E in it. I've been making incredible images to go with my my Substack and my blog posts that I would have paid thousands of dollars, you know, for each one of those when I was doing magazines and they have voice chat. If you haven't connected ChatGPT's voice app to the new action button on
[00:57:25] the iPhone 15, there's a button above your volume called action. You can map it to a specific feature inside of any app. I mapped it to voice chat on chat GPT. When I'm driving with my kids, they have a question, we put it in and we just start asking questions about history, science, whatever it happens to be, pop culture, music to chat GPT-4 and it is an extraordinary breakthrough app. And it's, you know, been downloaded
[00:57:51] I think hundreds of millions of times now or over 100 million. Incredible, incredible progress there. Chamath, you got a best tech? Best new tech? I don't think there was anything meaningful in 2023. I think there was a lot of improvements to things that were founded and started in 2020 or 2021 or 2022. Nothing new that caught my eye this year. Sacks. I have Starlink for JetSuiteX. Uh I of course I've never used it, but I
[00:58:17] heard it's great. But if you do fly with other humans who you don't know, I I'm looking forward to uh Starlink for private aviation as well, but I've heard it's a real game-changer on commercial flights and every kind of flight. Freeber. Best new tech. My best new tech of this year, I think is really important as we race to keep the promise of AI alive in the face of increasing government regulation, which is open-source locally run LLMs. So, you
[00:58:52] can take a an LLM and you can run it on your machine. You don't have to be connected to the internet. You don't have to have a third-party service provider making a LLM available to you. And so, this allows the continued development and pursuit of productivity gains and new capabilities that emerge from these LLMs by making them local, offline, disconnected from the internet and and away from the scrutability of
[00:59:18] agencies that want to check your model and make sure it's okay. So, this is really important to me. I do think like my broader trend right now is I think that there's this really scary, big shift of you're either going to end up in a new enlightenment or you're going to end up in a new dark ages. And I think we're seeing this play out in all these conflicts around the world, in all of this regulation, and all of the the
[00:59:39] technology that's being deemed either a threat or an opportunity. And so I I think any technology capability that allows us to pursue the enlightenment is a winner for me. So anyway, this was a big shift that happened this year and there's multiple models that were publicly available that are free, open source, that you can run. Okay, 2023 best trend. Chamath, what was the best trend 2023 for you? I actually didn't really couldn't figure
[01:00:06] one out. Okay. Sachs, you got a best trend for 2023? Something that happened often and became a trend. My best trend is the return of color blindness as the standard and the pushback on DEI. We already talked about the university presidents and what Bill Ackman is doing. I would add to that that the Supreme Court banned race-based affirmative action in university admissions in June. And red state governors like Greg Abbott
[01:00:31] and Ron DeSantis took that as a green light to shut down DEI programs in their public colleges and universities. I think that this is a good trend and hopefully it continues next year because America should be a colorblind meritocracy. Friedberg, what was your best trend of 2023? The profitability focus at young companies, particularly in an age of AI co-pilot tools for software development. From what I've seen, it's pretty
[01:00:57] incredible. In single-person efforts can yield what historically has required six, 12, or more people to do using co-pilot tools and AI. So software development is accelerated, new products, and entire companies can be built by single individual at very low cost building totally customized software. So from what I've seen, it's not widely adopted, these these capabilities as you guys probably have seen as well. It's
[01:01:23] starting to be, but just imagine once the majority of people are using these co-piloting tools to write software and start to learn how to use these tools, it's really going to increase productivity globally as it finds its way into every business and everyone can become an entrepreneur and so on. So, it's it's incredible to see. I too, Sachs, was looking at the issue of DEI and I framed mine as DEI dying and meritocracy thriving. That was the
[01:01:48] best trend for me. So, we are once again simpatico, you and I. DEI dying and meritocracy thriving. Nicely done. You really are proving your a centrist. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think or I just listened to MLK's speech and I thought, that seems like the most logical thing to do. Yeah, you're right. Absolutely, 100%. 100%. We figured this out some time ago. Yeah, I don't know why we have to rehash it. Okay, 2023, worst trend.
[01:02:14] I'll lead it off. I had three here of worst trends. Number one, anti-Semitism. Absolutely disgusting and horrible. Two, Trump's rehabilitation. We'll just leave it at that. And then three, people of low moral character using the freedom of speech movement to whitewash their horrible personal behavior. Yes, I'm talking about Alex Jones to all the mids in the comments. Sachs, what was the worst trend for you? You
[01:02:37] had to have three, didn't you? Well, I'm going to go with anti-Semitism. Those are my two two runners-up. fair enough. Yeah. I think you guys will like my worst trend. It is the metastasizing national debt. This chart really makes it clear. You can see here the national debt as a function of deficit and revenues and it's a upside-down hockey stick. Jesus. If a company could produce user growth that looked like this, I would invest
[01:03:02] all day long. However, this is not growth. This is basically how much we owe. And it is a bipartisan problem. It's been going on for really 20 plus years, but it is getting worse and worse under Biden. Yeah. Eight trillion added to the deficit under Trump and looks like five to six trillion under Biden. Well, you know, we did have a COVID We did have meltdown where the economy was down 30% year-over-year, so The tax cuts and