[00:57:31] settlement process that victims or alleged victims could submit claims to and then there would be a mediator brought in to evaluate the claims and decide what amount of money to give out. So there wouldn't have to just be like a flood of individual lawsuits. They could kind of consolidate it. And so they set up a settlement model basically for the Epstein estate which was expressly non-adversarial, meaning there would be
[00:57:55] no adversarial scrutinization of the claims that were made to justify somebody's entitlement to millions of dollars. people as uh uh claimants were entitled to as much as $5 billion from just this one settlement fund and it was taxree by the way. >> Wait, this is with this is with Deutsch Bank. >> No, no, this is the epsian estate. I'm getting to Deutsch Bank because it ties into the Epstein estate from the Epstein
[00:58:20] estate. This Epstein estate was first in the chronology of settlements >> and so they set up a settlement model, right? It's a non-adversarial, confidential, tax-free because they claim that it applies under that it could be categorized under the IRS code as like compensation for an injury. So therefore, you don't have to pay income taxes on it. Um, and so that gets set up, right? And then >> and who adjudicates that?
[00:58:44] The court in the US Virgin Islands because the estate was doiciled in the US Virgin Islands appointed on the recommendation of both parties a an independent mediator or administrator Simona Lelchuk her name is who specialized she claimed anyway in this sort of thing and like she had an extra sensitivity toward sexual assault victim she claimed um I mean it's kind of a phony we don't want to get you know sucked into that nec necessarily tangent
[00:59:14] but um yeah so there's an independent administrator and that was modeled they said on >> previous consolidated settlement mechanisms such as like the Jerry Sanduski >> um I don't know if you recall the Jerry Sanduski sand scandal at Penn State where claims were made that this football coach had abused a bunch of boys and so a consolidated settlement program was set up to pay out settlements to claimments. >> Okay, got it. So that's the Epstein
[00:59:37] estate. So let's get to the >> So then they they they take that model that had been set up for the Epstein estate and then they start going after bank major multinational banking institutions that David Boy and Bradley Edwards decide to very creatively and cleverly I have to say allege were complicit in Jeffrey Epstein's like world spanning child sex trafficking operation and therefore reliable. >> Wait, what is the nexus between Deutsch
[01:00:04] Bank or Bank of America and Epstein? Were those the banks that he used? >> Epstein banked at those institutions. So first JP Morgan from like the late 90s to 2013 roughly and then Deutschbank from 2013 to 2019. >> And the argument is that they should have somehow stopped his activities. >> Yeah. That >> or failed to do a KYC or something like that. >> Yeah. I mean they they they they they first started making a much more
[01:00:29] accusatory argument about their direct complicity in facilitating a sex trafficking operation. But what the judge ultimately agreed to was to that they were effectively or they were reasonably guilty or reasonably to be found liable for essentially negligence because Epstein would withdraw cash and that's supposed to trigger certain monitoring provisions that it was claimed JP Morgan and Deutsch Bank did not satisfactorily do. I mean it was
[01:00:58] kind of like a stretch of an argument frankly but because of the popular climate around oh the people anybody who was involved in this in any way has to pay for all this pedophilic sex trafficking there wasn't a whole lot really that the lawyers for those banking institutions could do to take the heat off >> so they settle right so they settled so there are two funds and that yeah >> how big are those settlement funds th
[01:01:19] those two >> so JP Morgan was ended up totaling around 290 million and the lawyers end up convincing the judge who presided over this agreement in New York, the federal judge Rakeoff, to grant them 30% in legal fees or attorneys fees that they claimed. Um, and Deutsch Bank was around 90 million or 80 million maybe. Um, >> okay. >> So, just add those up now. So, the Epstein estate was around, if I'm remembering, 121 million and that's gone
[01:01:51] up actually since even more litigation has been filed separated apart from the class action settlement. JP working 290, Deutsch Bank around 80 or 90. So we're already at like a half a billion dollar industry and there's plenty of other lawsuits and settlements that have been spawned from this thing. And so I just have never understood or I do understand it. So I should correct myself. I've always found it perversely amazing that this whole
[01:02:18] aspect of this story is never mentioned because it's led to such things as this gross inflation of the total number of victims where you have adult there's financial incentives. You're saying there's financial incentives here and just the lawyers are these are contingency fee plaintiffs lawyers. They get like 30% or what's their I mean these guys are not paid by the hour, right? They they're they get >> Well, no. Well, could that they I don't
[01:02:40] think it's No, not it's not a contingency fee. >> Okay. >> Set up for this. They they got the judge to approve >> a 30% earmark of the resulting settlement funds to be g given over for attorneys fees. So, it wasn't a contingent based on the client. It was that the judge approved 30% of the overall settlement. >> Got it. So the the lawyers who sort of organized these settlement pools, >> right, >> negotiated essentially their cut up
[01:03:10] front and you're saying with the judge and you're saying that was about 30% >> of all these exactly 30%. >> Okay. Okay. Got it. >> But you have a if you have a set of criteria that are so lax, I mean JP Morgan even had even more lax criteria than the epste which basically allowed anybody who ever like came within two football fields of Jeffrey Epstein to file a claim against them and get a few million dollars taxfree. Um but the the
[01:03:32] JP Morgan settlement was even more lax. So there are people who are event basically rejected the few who were rejected from the Epstein estate fund end up getting a settlement from some of them anyway the JP Morgan or Deutschbank fund. So that that's so this woman Lisa Phillips who was like an adult model never made any claim about anything to do with Jeffrey Epstein that was wrongful for like 20 years said on a
[01:03:55] podcast publicly that she had no idea what these girls were talking about when they make these allegations against Jeffrey Epstein as of 2020 she said this by 2023 she's getting you know she never she I asked her she didn't disclose to me her full amount but you know probably around 2 million at least and then they get free healthcare from yet another settlement between the US Virgin Islands, the government of the US Virgin
[01:04:17] Islands and the and JP Morgan um that they set aside for just free health care for until 2028 for any alleged Epstein victim. Um and it's just like don't people recognize how that can be incentivized this inflation of the number of total victims we're told must exist and that thus gives rise to this mass hysteria and moral panic about like thousands of victims. I mean at this Bondi Pam Bondi hearing that was so contentious last
[01:04:46] week at the House Judiciary Committee you had people screaming thousands of victims need you know demand justice and it's just like a concoction that is not grounded in any approximation of like empirical fact. So I always say if people want to be mad at Pam Bondi and Cash Patel for something, be mad at them for signing off on that ridiculous memo from last July where they include that figure of over a thousand victims that
[01:05:11] has f given fuel to the most maximalist conceptions of Epstein mythology in terms of the victims that were left in their wake. I mean soccer always wants to and I shouldn't maybe say too much. I'm not and I'm not trying to impute him at all, but I do get a lot of people on the internet doing a variation of what soccer did saying, &quot;Hey, let's just talk about the Intel ties. Forget all this, you know, gossip stuff around.
[01:05:31] >> Well, they are interesting. I mean, the intel ties are interesting, right? >> Sure. I'm I'm, you know, the whole story is interesting. It's interesting that Epstein apparently met Michael Jackson in his Palm Beach house and photos of it came out. It's interesting that he can live with everyone from Donald Trump to Bill Clinton. I agree. It's interesting. >> Let me bring up one sort of criticism of you and then I want to give Kevin a
[01:05:52] chance to get in here. So look, I I think it's very important that we hold this process to evidentiary standards like you're saying. I think that people's motivations need to be examined, especially like the lawyers who are bringing these cases who are, you know, reaping hundreds of millions of dollars. So I think you are and I think even Saga admitted this, I think you're playing an extremely important role in this process by bringing some
[01:06:17] rigor and accountability to a lot of these claims. I think that's really important. At the same time, you're not really offering an explanation of so many aspects that are so interesting about Epstein. And I'm not saying it's necessarily your duty to do that, but I'm wondering, you know, do you have a a theory of how did he accumulate hundreds of millions of dollars? How did he get so connected? Some people like Mike Benz
[01:06:46] have said that it all goes back to Burr Sterns where he says that one of his accounts was BCCI which was this notorious international bank that was involved eventually was shut down because it was involved in international moneyaundering and crimes things like that. So I think this is Mike Benz's theory. In any event, do you have a theory that would provide a satisfactory explanation for so many of the threads
[01:07:11] that we see? Or do you just feel like it's not really your job to to do that and your job is really more just to poke holes in, you know, what are some of the more outlandish claims of politicians or lawyers? >> Well, I'm happy to address any little data point that people want to throw out at me. I mean, I do that all day every day pretty much. So, it's not like I'm trying to avoid anything or be at all evasive, right? So, people ask me all
[01:07:38] the time, okay, how did he make his money? What about Leslie Wexter, etc., etc. So, it's not like I'm unaccustomed to addressing any of this stuff. It's just that I feel like there's a bit of a fallacy or a logical flaw in attempting to say that it's incumbent on me to profer some kind of ultimate totalizing theory. I have a theory I could sketch out that maybe explains some of what people would like to know in such you know that people are
[01:08:05] so titillated by. But I think again one of the things one of the reasons why the coverage of the story has been so horribly bad is that speculation has replaced fact and we just have this whole mythology or folklore that's developed and that people just kind of am ambiently absorb and then they end up just believing things that are totally false. So, for example, people just believe, and I'm sure you've seen this, that Epstein must
[01:08:28] have referred to his private plane as Lolita Express. Therefore, anybody who was ever on the plane must have known that this was like a child sex trafficking plane because why else would it be named the Lolita Express after the famous book about, you know, 12-year-old girl or whatever who was a sexual object. That's just like false. I mean, that was this is there's never any evidence for that. It was a nickname
[01:08:48] that it was invented like by a it was a cheeky nickname invented by this British tabloid. And so that's just one example of all this flatsom that >> Okay. But but but to go back, do you have a theory of how specifically Epstein got started? Because somehow I guess it was in the 80s he went from someone who was just a trader at Bear Sterns to very quickly amassing a fortune that I don't know seems like hundreds of millions of dollars. I mean
[01:09:14] like you said he died with about 650 million. I don't know how big the fortune was in the 1980s. We know that Wexner sold him the townhouse. I guess one of the details that came out the other day is Wexner said it was at what he was told was fair market value and Epstein obtains his plane from Wexner. So, I mean, is that the explanation that somehow he got his start because Wexner was extraordinarily generous towards
[01:09:40] him? Like, I'm just curious like >> not quite. Um, so I mean there there was a a huge New York Times article that was one of the few helpful contributions to the popular knowledge around Jeffrey Epstein recently in December where they go through I mean they they basically set out to answer the question that everybody always asks with like a wink and a nod as though they think that the asking of the question is supposed to
[01:10:04] prove that the answer would be fundamentally sinister. Meaning how did Jeff Jeffrey Epste make his money? Because the idea is that he must have made his money by dent of his orchestration of this pedophilic sex trafficking ring that he enforced by blackmail at the direction of the MSAD or something like that. And the New York Times goes into fairly forensic detail about how he ended up accumulating money over the course of the 1980s. So people
[01:10:28] could go read that if they'd like. I mean, I do think that it's fair to say, and saying this does not mean that you have to have to condone everything that Jeffrey Epstein ever did over the course of his entire life, but I do think that he was definitely very high intelligence. I do think that he was um highly proficient in mathematics as a young man, which is why he part of why he became a math teacher at the Dalton
[01:10:50] School, a pretty prestigious private school in Manhattan. then ends up getting recruited to Bear Sterns and ends up innovating some novel financial maneuvers that you're probably much more fluent in than me in terms of describing because I'm not a finance guy. But it was around a time where there was a demand for Wall Street to innovate new tactics for very high netw worth individuals to structure their wealth to
[01:11:11] lessen their tax burden to do all kinds of other things and Epstein did so and then he leaves Bear Stern. So he rose to the ranks of Beer Sterns pretty quickly. So around around age 24 25 he was like a partner or he had some relatively high ranking position um relative to the rest of the workforce at Bear Sterns at at a young age. He starts up his own boutique financial advisory firm that's tailored specifically to very high netw worth
[01:11:39] individuals such as ultimately Leslie Wexner who is one of the wealthiest people in the United States. Yes, they do have a he was wexter was definitely Epstein's most important client. They there was the power of attorney that was handed over which is seen unto itself on the internet to be either inherently sinister or to show us that of course Epstein must have been in some kind of like pedophilic collusion with Wexner.
[01:12:00] But I mean it's explicable if you actually want to know what it was about. At a certain point people just want to have to have the ability to keep asking that question with like a gleam in their eye as though the they're supposed to it's supposed to imply that there is this ped that like that the pedto sex trafficking is the ultimate answer to everything. But you know, Gilelay Maxwell, when she gave her proper
[01:12:21] interview last summer to the deputy attorney general, Todd Blanch, in the very first time, amazingly enough, that she was asked by any US government official to simply describe her experiences with Jeffrey Epstein. Imagine that. Um, despite having been integral, we were we've been told all these years in the running of the most prolific child sex trafficking operation, I guess, in the world history. Only in July 2025 did any
[01:12:42] government official ever just ask her to describe what her relationship with Jeffrey Epstein was all about. And she said that she observed Epstein doing a lot of work that would seem very complicated and intense to her in terms of his financial business. So for example, Maxwell says Epste basically restructuring all of the finances for Wexner's business holdings. And you know, he owned the limited, he owned Victoria's Secret, other kinds of
[01:13:06] women's clothing outfits and retailers, he had real estate developments. And Epstein was basically the money guy for all of it. And for a man who in the early 90s was already worth like a couple of billion Wexner that is if Epstein is getting like a yearly cut of the revenues that could add up over time, right? And they had a handful of other very high net worth clients like Elizabeth Johnson who was an ays to the
[01:13:30] Johnson and Johnson fortune. Leon Black the head hedge fund uh manager. So you don't need that many extremely high net worth clients, right? If you're their go-to money manager to eventually de uh build up a pretty nicesized fortune. I would imagine. So, I'm not saying we have a full accounting of like every penny that he ever accumulated over the course of his life, but we have quite a bit of information and it just occurs to