[00:00:00] Okay, everyone. By popular demand, we're doing an all Epstein show today. My besties are all on vacation for ski week, so I'm taking this on solo. We have three different guests on who all have very different interpretations and opinions of the Epstein story. Sagar and Jetty from Breaking Points believes that the Epste shows that there is a quote unquote Epstein class that operates above law and accountability. He views
[00:00:24] the story as an indictment of our ruling elites. Michael Tracy is skeptical about many of the most salicious claims about Epstein and questions whether they meet any kind of evidentiary standard. He has criticized the media feeding frenzy over what he has called Epstein mythology. And finally, Kevin Bass, a citizen journalist who's been tracking the release files and posting his findings on X, specifically in regards to Reed
[00:00:47] Hoffman, perhaps the figure in tech most closely associated with Jeffrey Epstein. Some of it gets heated, but hopefully you'll come away with new perspectives and great information. I felt like it was important to showcase a range of viewpoints on this issue. I'm trying to keep an open mind and I'll describe my own point of view at the end of the show. And with that, here we go. Sager, let me start with you. What is the
[00:01:08] import of the arrest of Prince Andrew in the UK this morning? I mean, is this a case of show us the man and we'll tell you the crime? I mean, it obviously it seems kind of coincidental that he's not being arrested for misconduct in the Epstein affair. He's being arrested on mishandling, I guess, trade secrets or public documents. So, obviously, the timing of this is not coincidental. >> No, it's certainly not coincidental, but
[00:01:38] I do believe that the facts do matter in this case. And uh unfortunately, you know, for Prince Andrew, for Lord Mandlesson, the former ambassador uh to the United States from the UK as well, it is pretty clear-cut that they did violate their official duties. We should remember that the crux of this case involving Andrew is not just about some of the accusations that were made, although that is the genesis, let's say,
[00:01:59] of the investigation and of the interest. This is about Prince Andrew serving as a UK trade adviser and forwarding non-public information to Jeffrey Epstein has been released that's currently in the file. Some of it is involving scheduling. However, uh Gordon Brown this morning said that he had actually shared some new information with Scotland Yard in the police. So, none, it's not exactly just what's in the file, but it could potentially be
[00:02:22] other uh material that Gordon Brown and the chancellory were able to investigate as to what Prince Andrew was sharing as part of a broader probe into Lord Mandelson and the tip off that he gave to Jeffrey Epstein about an upcoming bailout. And I do think that this does reveal quite a lot about Jeffrey Epstein. The next is the genesis of his rise to power, his wealth, and his influence. something that involved let's
[00:02:45] say even some of the co-hosts uh let's say on this very podcast which is a deep financial knowledge of moneyaundering networks of trying to be at the very forefront of moving money across the globe which I believe is his real power and his influence which is what enabled much of the behavior that much of the public is now horrified by >> okay wait I I can't let that just go by what do you mean by involving co-host of
[00:03:09] this podcast >> I'm talking about Jason I actually thought that the Jason email uh was Very interesting. So you'll see that in 2011 that Jeffrey Epstein is contacting Jason about Bitcoin. This is by I saw I watched your discussion. I'm not implicating him in any crime. I'm saying if you watch and look at that email very closely, you are watching Jeffrey Epstein, a master money launderer and financial mastermind himself, be at the
[00:03:33] forefront of the Bitcoin technology and wondering about it in 2011, which as Jason even pointed out in the last episode that you guys did about this when Bitcoin was some $1 and some sort of open-source project. Like to me that shows how at the forefront he was of new technology and new ways to move money surreptitiously across the globe, which is what I believe was his real strength and his basically um his his uh raise on
[00:04:00] detra for being so useful to all of these different foreign governments and intelligence assets including ours, Russia, Israel, various different Israeli or various different intelligence uh networks across the globe. Yeah, let me just for for viewers of this episode who didn't see that episode, let me just summarize what exactly happened there because I want to just make sure that >> Jason's reputation is not unfairly
[00:04:27] impuged. And I don't think you're doing that, but just to be absolutely clear about it, what happened was that Jason hosted an episode of This Week in Startups roughly, I think in 2011, with a couple of the Bitcoin core founders and then Epstein reached out to him for an introduction to those people. I thought and and one of my takeaways from that was like you said Sagar that Epste was extraordinarily early to Bitcoin. He
[00:04:50] clearly had a nose for putting himself in the middle of things. I think 2011 is when I discovered Bitcoin. So that was relatively early. I thought it was almost comical the way that Jason was trying to warn Epstein, oh, you don't want to meet these guys. These are some these are some crazies. They're like these crypto libertarians. They want to take down the government. There's no profit. Um there's no investment
[00:05:17] opportunity here. In a way, it was kind of comical that Jason was trying to warn Epstein about the Bitcoin guys rather than vice versa. But I don't really think people knew at that point in time what Epstein was involved in. Do you disagree with that? Do you think people should have known by 2011? Well, David, I mean, I will say there is a way back machine and we can go back and we can look at what the Google results were and
[00:05:42] we do have somebody who pled guilty. And look, I mean, this is for every individual to make up their own mind. You can't Google for solicitation of prostitution involving a minor. I mean, that was literally a matter of public record. I can only speak for myself. That's not really somebody I would involve myself with, even at a professional level. Uh, and had you known? >> Well, you can Google it. It's literally
[00:06:02] public, >> but it wasn't widely publicized at the time. Palm Beach Post. There were numerous news articles. >> I thought the Palm Beach story didn't come out until or sorry, maybe it was the Miami Herald didn't come out till 2018. >> Well, you're Yeah, you're talking about the 2018 kind of the broader story, but the original solicitation of prosecution involving a minor charge, 2007, I believe, is when the nonprosecution
[00:06:24] agreement came to bear. That was all public record in terms of registration of a sex offender. And again, you can use the way back machine and you can go back and look. I mean again this doesn't necessarily implicate anybody in a crime and anybody can make up the decision for themselves as to how they would have uh you know involved themselves with that person but it was it was out there like it wasn't uh unknown and I do think it's
[00:06:45] not really responsible to imply otherwise. >> Quick factual clarification on that although it wasn't an enormous story at the time. You can find coverage in the New York Times in July of 2008 after Epstein pleaded guilty to the two state level prostitution charges. We didn't have the full scope of the information obviously about what he was accused of or the nature of the nonprosecution agreement, but a Google search would
[00:07:08] have yielded that at that time. >> Yeah, that's right. >> Yeah, it's hard for me to judge. I certainly in that time period had never even heard of Jeffrey Epstein and I don't think most people had. When did this become sort of a cause celeb? I mean, wasn't it more around his >> 2018? I would say >> 2018. Yeah, I think it's important to explain and >> when the incredibly overrated Miami Herald series by Julie K. Brown, which
[00:07:32] is just r rife with errors and mischaracterizations became this sensation across the media landscape and Julie K. Brown was showered with all these accolades from all these bogus journalism industry organizations. Even though, for example, I caught her fabricating quotes in her book, Coversion of Justice, which was based on the initial Miami Herald series. But Michael, I don't think that you would clownish people in the
[00:07:56] journalism landscape. >> Michael, I don't think that you would deny that ultimately that this did not Yes, it was sparked by Julie K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. K. Brown's Miami Herald story is that a federal judge was not necessarily like, you know, a federal judge who reviewed the nonprosecution agreement did say that this was a violation of the Crime Victim's Rights Act because >> that was overturned on appeal.
[00:08:13] >> Right. Well, I understand, however, that this has also gone forth to the Supreme Court involving Gain Maxwell. As I understand now, is currently being litigated. But I do think it is important. >> The Supreme Court rejected it. >> Yeah, that's what I'm what I'm talking about. >> Maxwell's appeal appeal. >> I'm talking about the Maxwell appeal, but specifically the nonprosecution agreement and the overturning is what re
[00:08:32] led to the current indictment of the 2019 indictment of Jeffrey Epste. No, >> that's wrong, Sager. >> No. Well, go ahead. You I'm happy for you to explain it to me. Go ahead. >> Yeah. I mean, this is a misconception. The nonprosecution agreement was never overturned. Gileain Maxwell's argument includes Let me just finish. >> Sure. Gileain Maxwell's argument in her appeals included citing the nonprosecution agreement as something
[00:08:56] that she claimed she ought to have been covered by. Yes. And therefore insulated from federal prosecution which was initiated against her in 2020. The nonprosecution agreement was never nullified. It was never voided. Bradley Edwards, the victim lawyer, attempted to convince federal judges to somehow nullify it, but he failed. The reason why Jeffrey Epstein was federally reprosecuted in 2019 is because prosecutors in the Southern District of
[00:09:23] New York, Moren Comey at all, concocted this cockamame rationale for how they could circumvent the nonprosecution agreement by picking claiming they found a new victim in New York, claiming that there was some interstate nexus in which they could tie some of the old Florida allegations, but it was never nullified at all. So just I I apologize for not being very specific in my language. It was ruled in 2019 that it had violated
[00:09:51] the Crime Victim's Rights Act. That's what led to the reindictment. But what I'm spec Well, no, >> there was no connection. >> Well, no, because that led to the story reopening from Miami Herald and that led then to the 2019 SDNY. >> You got I mean, I'm sorry, not to be combative, but you have your chronology wrong. The Miami Herald story was based on Julie K. Brown. Julie Yeah, that was based on Julie K. around colluding with
[00:10:14] the victim's lawyers, not the court ruling on the crimes victim's rights act. >> All right, guys. Let me let me just get control of this again because I think we're going down a rabbit hole and there's lots of aspects of this story that that we could discuss. I think that >> we should probably judge each person who interacted with Epstein or visited his island and so forth and so on individually in terms of what they
[00:10:33] actually did, what they actually knew. Sar, I just think you're being a little bit unfair to Jason because all he did was exchange emails with >> I I don't think in the 2011 time period. That's all. >> Well, what I was trying to point out was Jeffrey Epstein's knowledge or interest of Bitcoin in 2011. And that links to a broader Epstein involvement with money laundering and tax fraud and so-called involvement with Leon Black and many of
[00:11:00] these other multi-billionaires who paid him lots of money. I'm just saying I'm putting that as part of into a broader scheme. >> Yes. And I think that exchange was noteworthy for the reason you just said, which is that Epstein somehow was putting himself in the middle of all sorts of things. I mean, he's almost like a Zeligike figure who pops up in many different newsworthy stories over the last few decades, which is what I
[00:11:24] think makes this interesting. I think maybe a question for each of you is who do you think this guy ultimately was? I mean, you hear all sorts of theories. Let's say maybe the Epstein maximalist position would be that he was an intelligence asset or intelligence agent who was running a vast compromat operation on his island and thereby was corrupting and blackmailing the world's elite to someone who uh I think Michael
[00:11:57] you you have a different point of view on that. Let me not characterize it. I'll let you guys do it, but Sagar, let me start with you. Who do you think this guy was? And ultimately, you know, at a 30,000 ft level, what do you think is going on here? What is this Epstein story really about? And then Michael, I want to go to you on the same question. >> Yeah, sure. I mean, I do think that there is a very low IQ unfortunate, you
[00:12:18] know, explosion of accusations that are out there. And I want to be very responsible in the way that I describe it. I think that Jeffrey Epstein was somebody who arose under very suspicious conditions uh in the 1980s potentially involving Iran Contra knowledge specifically with arms traffickers like Adnan Kosigible and Douglas Lease Steven Hoffenberg as well and that these black market moneyaundering tax evasion
[00:12:43] strategies were honed over a period which eventually inspired various people like Lesie Wexner and many other multi-billionaires and that at the very same time he also had you know his sexual proclivities which I think at this point were wellknown and that those became and became useful his moneyaundering specific uh duties and knowledge and usefulness let's say to the CIA to various other intelligence assets became a very useful part of the
[00:13:10] nexus in the postcold war environment and that at the time it was also socially known for a lot of Epstein associates that he had this bizarre practice of often you know seeking out massages which In some cases, they are saying involving underage girls. And so to say that he was running a vast compromat operation, I think ascribes too much intention to what's really happening here. And the reason why I'm being intentional in my language is that
[00:13:38] what he clearly was doing was recruiting and running this like vast massage scheme also involving Gain Maxwell all across the world, Russian and Eastern European women, but also that this behavior was tolerated in some cases seen by a vast number of the global elite. Now, the 2007 circumstances of the nonprosecution agreement, you know, and Michael and I could go back on this uh forward a long time as to the
[00:14:03] circumstances of which that arose. However, I don't think Michael, you would even deny that his access to wealth, power, and money did eventually allow him to get off with the 2007 nonprosecution agreement and the eventual sweetheart deal uh that he gets with his hiring. I wouldn't agree with that, actually. Well, I mean, I don't think the average Joe can just hire Ken Star and uh private investigators and lawyers to tell some of the
[00:14:26] >> Oh, sure. I mean, his vast wealth enables him to secure very high power legal represent representation. >> That's what I'm claiming. This whole concept of a sweetheart deal is a total canar that Brown. >> Michael, I don't want to get off on that yet, but just go back to my original question of what is your 30,000 ft take on what this story is about? Who was this guy in your view? >> I will answer that. However, I do want
[00:14:49] to just stipulate upfront that I think this reflex to have to offer some kind of totalistic assessment of who Jeffrey Epstein was at, his very essence has fed into so much of the constant churn of algorithmic slop that has generated this hysterical frenzy around this issue and has led to people being totally deluded about what we're even talking about. What do most people I I I have some surmises about Jeffrey Epsteine. He
[00:15:16] definitely was a money manager who, as you mentioned, was sort of like this Zelig character who did have an extraordinary cross-section of connections with people from across fields. And, you know, I just was looking through some of these records in the new Epstein Files Productions, and I was looking for something else, but there are there's an archive of these old message pads that he had at his Palm Beach house
[00:15:38] >> and I'm scrolling through and it turns out Holly Berry left him a couple of messages. I had no idea that Holly Berry was ever in contact with Jeffrey Epstein. So you can always find somebody new and novel who apparently had a one dealing or another with him. But why are we talking about Jeffrey Epstein right now in February of 2026 >> because PE he is believed to have been the most prolific child sex trafficker
[00:16:02] in American or perhaps world history which is why this issue might now take down the British government. It's embroiling Norway. A minister in Slovakia had to resign over it. There's a new criminal investigation that was just launched in France, etc. That's what people conceive Jeffrey Epstein to have been. And that whole notion is based on just an onslaught of mythological nonsense that's pumped out daily by these YouTube shows, I won't