[01:11:39] individuals such as ultimately Leslie Wexner who is one of the wealthiest people in the United States. Yes, they do have a he was wexter was definitely Epstein's most important client. They there was the power of attorney that was handed over which is seen unto itself on the internet to be either inherently sinister or to show us that of course Epstein must have been in some kind of like pedophilic collusion with Wexner.
[01:12:00] But I mean it's explicable if you actually want to know what it was about. At a certain point people just want to have to have the ability to keep asking that question with like a gleam in their eye as though the they're supposed to it's supposed to imply that there is this ped that like that the pedto sex trafficking is the ultimate answer to everything. But you know, Gilelay Maxwell, when she gave her proper
[01:12:21] interview last summer to the deputy attorney general, Todd Blanch, in the very first time, amazingly enough, that she was asked by any US government official to simply describe her experiences with Jeffrey Epstein. Imagine that. Um, despite having been integral, we were we've been told all these years in the running of the most prolific child sex trafficking operation, I guess, in the world history. Only in July 2025 did any
[01:12:42] government official ever just ask her to describe what her relationship with Jeffrey Epstein was all about. And she said that she observed Epstein doing a lot of work that would seem very complicated and intense to her in terms of his financial business. So for example, Maxwell says Epste basically restructuring all of the finances for Wexner's business holdings. And you know, he owned the limited, he owned Victoria's Secret, other kinds of
[01:13:06] women's clothing outfits and retailers, he had real estate developments. And Epstein was basically the money guy for all of it. And for a man who in the early 90s was already worth like a couple of billion Wexner that is if Epstein is getting like a yearly cut of the revenues that could add up over time, right? And they had a handful of other very high net worth clients like Elizabeth Johnson who was an ays to the
[01:13:30] Johnson and Johnson fortune. Leon Black the head hedge fund uh manager. So you don't need that many extremely high net worth clients, right? If you're their go-to money manager to eventually de uh build up a pretty nicesized fortune. I would imagine. So, I'm not saying we have a full accounting of like every penny that he ever accumulated over the course of his life, but we have quite a bit of information and it just occurs to
[01:13:54] me that some the people who are who most loudly ask how did he get his money almost don't even want to know or read into the information that is currently available. >> All right. Well, I mean, it is kind of unusual that a money manager in that position would obtain that much money so quickly. I'll just say like from my experience with the money management business, they're not generally able to charge that much. But let me put a pin
[01:14:20] in that cuz I want to let Kevin Bass get in here. I've been following your feed quite a bit. You are basically a startup entrepreneur who got interested in in the Epstein files. I think you used AI to analyze them. And in particular, you've been looking at Reed Hoffman's story about Epstein, and you've put together an analysis. I think you've called it the Reed Hoffman Files. I've been following your your tweets, and
[01:14:46] it's quite interesting. Let's start with how you got into this, what got you interested, and and how you've been doing your research. >> Yeah. So, originally, I just saw that uh there was kind of a conflict uh on social media about Reed Hoffman. I didn't know much about uh the Epstein files or or about that particular conflict, but I was curious. I built some really sophisticated AI tools, you know, mostly using like vectorzed s uh
[01:15:14] SQL databases and and some of the MCP stuff with the new agents and uh for for some other purposes. And so I wanted to port those over to see if I could resolve some of these questions. Uh Elon had some very strong opinions about Hoffman's involvements with Epstein and he's usually at least uh if he's not always directly on the bullseye, he's usually at least a few inches away. So I wanted to go check those out. And then you know I they they
[01:15:42] came out in I guess late January, January 30th, the big ones that the big drop that recently happened. And so I just uh I started going through the Reed Hoffman part in particular uh and I essentially started to try to organize or I have organized most of my analyses around some core claims that Hoffman made about his involvement with Epstein. I've just been asking the question, are these claims true? Uh are they supported
[01:16:07] by the record or are they contradicted by the record? And um overwhelmingly, like absolutely overwhelmingly, uh they appear to be contradicted relentlessly by the uh the drop that came out in January um 30th. If you want, I can go through some of the big ones. Uh and then I can talk about >> Yeah, maybe maybe a place to start is with Reed Hoffman's statement in 2019 to Axios. This is when I guess the Epstein
[01:16:39] scandal first, I think, became national news and people who are closely associated with him felt the need to characterize the relationship with him to distance themselves to explain how they knew him or how closely they knew him. And Reed's statement at that time was the following. Let me just read this out. This is uh Reed Hoffman speaking. My few interactions with Jeffrey Epstein came at the request of Joey Itto for the
[01:17:08] purposes of fundraising for the MIT Media Lab. Prior to these interactions, I was told by Joey that Epstein had cleared the MIT vetting process, which was the basis for my participation. My last interaction with Epste was in 2015. Still, by agreeing to participate in any fundraising activity where Epstein was present, I hope to repair his reputation and perpetuate injustice for this, I am deeply regretful. >> Oh, give me a break.
[01:17:37] >> Is that statement accurate? >> Not at all. Uh, and in fact, it's not just from 2019. Uh, he even reiterated this on February 4th this year on X repeatedly. He said, &quot;I only know Jeffrey Epstein because of fundraising relationship with MIT, which I very much regret. These meetings were all coordinated by Joeyto, then director of MIT Media Lab.&quot; Uh, and he also says, &quot;We with Joey Eito, the director of MIT
[01:18:05] Media Lab, who asked me to help MIT fundrais with Epstein. I regret blah blah blah.&quot; Like, none of that's uh at all true. Uh there's very few mentions of even fundraising with MIT. I would even go so far as to say I don't know. I I've said it this way on on some of my posts, but it's like the extent of the relationship between Epstein and Reed Hoffman, it almost looks like best friends. Like my my best friends I don't
[01:18:35] interact with as anywhere near as much as as as Reed Hoffman and um and Jeffrey Epstein did over, you know, between 2013 and 2019. Um you know there are constant contact uh there's something around on the order of about 400 initiations by Hoffman to Epstein. It wasn't just mediated by Joe Eito at all. And uh you know there's their their sec their assistants were in constant contact with each other. They had extensive financial relationships.
[01:19:05] There's something like 42 different meetings uh that are documented. Around 20 are absolutely confirmed. Uh they met in in person for breakfast. They would uh spend each other spend each other spend time with each other's at each other's houses overnight meet um you know Epstein met his wife. It is claimed that by Hoffman that he only was there for one night. Even the one time that we have absolutely document that documented
[01:19:32] that uh he's referring to he was there for two nights and almost certainly there was two other island visits as well in addition. Uh it's an extraordinarily extensive personal and business relationship and it's not just about Joito. Now Joita was a really important part of it. Um Joey was sort of uh as far as I can tell again you guys know a lot more about this than I do but as far as I can tell really going
[01:19:57] through the files the last couple days. Joey was sort of um Epstein's uh gateway into sort of academia, Cambridge, Harvard science. that's that's sort of his main uh gateway there. Uh Reed Hoffen was his gateway into uh Silicon Valley into tech the main guy and uh so so there is a very close relationship as well between Joito and Hoffman but there is also very much an independent relationship between Hoffman and Jeffrey
[01:20:25] Epstein. Uh very much independent of Joeito. Okay. So So Reed claimed that he only had a few interactions with Epstein. That's false. You're saying he had hundreds >> hundreds >> including dozens of in-person meetings and >> yes >> stay stay at the island >> at least once you said for two nights not one and there were probably a second or third visit. >> Yes. >> There was the stay at the townhouse. Reed claimed that all of his
[01:20:54] interactions were sort of mediated by Joeyto and were about the MIT media lab. By the way, it's not clear why someone would feel compelled to spend so much time fundraising for MIT, which wasn't even their alma mater. So, this whole explanation didn't really make a lot of sense from the beginning. But it's pretty clear that the topics of conversation were not about MIT or MIT Media Lab. In fact, I thought one detail
[01:21:20] that was really kind of interesting was their first interaction, one of the first was about they bonded over a book called deception, which I haven't I haven't read the book. I don't know what the thesis is, but it appears to justify the use of deception in certain circumstances. >> Anyway, I just think that was ironic, I guess, if nothing else. >> But look, I you know, >> can I make a quick comment or go ahead?
[01:21:48] Yes. Yeah, Michael, go ahead. Do you want to be Reed's defense attorney in this context? >> Not not exactly. Although I end up, I guess, putting myself into a position where it can come across that way. I'm really trying to be the the defense attorney for like sanity. >> Yeah. >> So, here's what I would say. I have to just reject the whole premise of this discussion that is so ubiquitous now, which is that anybody who so much as
[01:22:11] exchanged a shortling email with Jeffrey Epstein, and I know Reed Hoffen apparently had a closer relationship with Jeffrey Epstein than just one email here or there, but the principle that anybody who had some interaction of of some degree to some degree or another, Jeffrey Epste now has something that they have to issue these mealymouth melodramatic statements of profound apology for is just so tedious and ridiculous. What are they guilty of? If
[01:22:39] the implication is that they're by association guilty of enabling pedophilic sex trafficking, that is a flagrant misconception. Do people know how come it's never clarified that Jeffrey Epstein was never even accused of committing any illicit sexual acts against any person under the age of 18 after the year 2005. So I don't know what years Reed Hoffman and Jeffrey Epstein interacted. But this idea that he was like looking the other way while
[01:23:09] all these pre-teens were being raped is just nonsense. But the media never clarifies it. So now we have everybody from Nome Chosky to Steve Bannon being told that their reputation is in tatters and they are themselves like by association some sort of like sex criminal enablers and it's just a it's just a total fantasy >> find this moral panic. >> Yeah, Michael, I think this I think you're making some really interesting
[01:23:34] points. Um I think they're important. I think >> I mean Epstein pleaded guilty to two prostitution charges in 2008. You're saying Reed Hoffman and Nome Chosky and Steve Bannon should have all said, &quot;Oh, because the guy pleaded guilty to two prostitution charges, which they were, which they were, that means nobody can ever consort with him ever again for the rest of his life.&quot; I think that's a ridiculous standard.
[01:23:53] >> There's two there's two different issues here. one is um whether or not there's this global pedophile ring and you know we can even go further and there's this sat these satanic rituals and all this other stuff which uh I'm inclined to think that uh you're you're very close to the truth in what you're saying. On the other hand, um there are Reed Hoffman's public statements like dramatically minimizing the
[01:24:20] relationship. Now sure >> I think that can easily obviously be explained. There's an obvious explanation where we don't have to necessarily impugn to Reed Hoffman, you know, being a pedophile or any of these other things that people are wanting to suggest because he lied. And the alternative explanation is just that this is such a hot potato. There is a hysteria. So people lie about their relationship with Epstein even though
[01:24:46] they're not guilty of something that's terrible behind the scenes. >> Any association at all is radio with Epstein is radioactive. I mean, but so if somebody lies, then I mean, they can be condemned for the lie because lying is like how Lutnik made up a ridiculous lie that was totally pointless and actually counterproductive for his purposes. And the lie itself can be condemnable, but not necessarily because
[01:25:08] Howard Lutnik is covering up any kind of pedophilic sex criminality, just because of the moral hysteria that's been allowed to be unleashed around this stuff or like any connection in any way to Epstein is like grounds for censure. >> Yeah. And all right, let me tell you my my point of view on this. So So first of all, I think you're correct that there's a lot of guilt by association happening and there is a little bit of a feeding
[01:25:30] frenzy. And like you said, just because someone emailed Epstein doesn't mean that they were involved with him in some nefarious way. And I thought it was unfair when Sager mentioned that Jason had, you know, emails with Epstein back in 2011 to make an introduction. I think that's >> I had even seen that. I mean, it's not important enough even to draw my attention. Like, who cares? There's plenty of interesting material in the
[01:25:54] files, but like random emails. >> No, no. And I I agree and that's why I tried to defend Jason there cuz I know that there was just nothing to that. Now, in the case of Reed, I think that there's a couple of things that are interesting about this. Number one is when this new Epstein files drop, Reed came out on X and very aggressively started pointing the finger at other people, wildly accusing both Elon Musk and Donald Trump of somehow
[01:26:24] being involved in Epstein's purported crimes. And this is just a classic case of someone throwing stones while living in a glass house. I mean, you look at his own statements from 2019 all the way up to weeks ago and they don't hold water at all. He lies about the extent of his relationship with Epstein, how many times they met, what the subject matter was, what the context was, how many times he visited the
[01:26:54] island potentially. I mean, just one lie after another while again wildly accusing other people. And you do have to just ask what is going on here? >> Yeah. And I mean, that just goes to show how weaponizable this whole thing is and how the Epstein story or any kind of tangential connection to Epstein can be leveraged to serve some kind of pre-existing agenda. So, if like Reed Hoffman and Elon Musk don't like each
[01:27:19] other, then they could accuse each other of like having a more a closer connection to Epstein than they did. And it's just like a uh a slugfest. And yet, I'm still struggling to understand like what the underlying accusation of wrongdoing is supposed to be. above and beyond just how perhaps Reed Hoffman and or Musk or whomever might have misrepresented the relationship. >> Well, the question the question is also
[01:27:45] partly like why did he need to so aggressively attack others? Why did he need to so aggressively lie about the relationship? Is it just that he's covering himself because of a moral hysteria or is there I don't know. Well, I mean, my my theory on this, I think it's kind of obvious what he's doing, is that by pointing the finger at Trump or Elon, actually both, he's driving everyone into their partisan tribes,
[01:28:12] >> right? >> So, as to, I think, seek protection of the Democrat tribe to which he's contributed hundreds of millions of dollars. And I think it's worked. I mean, you look at the mainstream media coverage of this, the New York Times coverage of it, which we talked about in a previous episode of the show. They wrote an article about Epstein's ties to Silicon Valley. Other people who had far less extensive of a relationship with
[01:28:35] Epstein got paragraphs in that story. Reed Hoffman was only mentioned in one sentence along with three other people. So, he does seem to be getting a pass from, you know, Michael, if you know, you want to characterize this as a feeding frenzy or moral panic or a Syria or what have you, whatever it is, he seems to be getting a pass from the media. And my point about this has not been to accuse Reed of crimes because I
[01:29:00] don't think we have any basis for that whatsoever. Let me just state that clearly. My >> is there a fallacy of all this then? >> No. Well, let me let me me get to that. My my point has just been that the media needs to cover this >> in a fair and even-handed way as opposed to like you said weaponizing it to go after the people they don't like because there's political advantage in that. Or another parallel is Hillary Clinton just