[01:26:54] island potentially. I mean, just one lie after another while again wildly accusing other people. And you do have to just ask what is going on here? >> Yeah. And I mean, that just goes to show how weaponizable this whole thing is and how the Epstein story or any kind of tangential connection to Epstein can be leveraged to serve some kind of pre-existing agenda. So, if like Reed Hoffman and Elon Musk don't like each
[01:27:19] other, then they could accuse each other of like having a more a closer connection to Epstein than they did. And it's just like a uh a slugfest. And yet, I'm still struggling to understand like what the underlying accusation of wrongdoing is supposed to be. above and beyond just how perhaps Reed Hoffman and or Musk or whomever might have misrepresented the relationship. >> Well, the question the question is also
[01:27:45] partly like why did he need to so aggressively attack others? Why did he need to so aggressively lie about the relationship? Is it just that he's covering himself because of a moral hysteria or is there I don't know. Well, I mean, my my theory on this, I think it's kind of obvious what he's doing, is that by pointing the finger at Trump or Elon, actually both, he's driving everyone into their partisan tribes,
[01:28:12] >> right? >> So, as to, I think, seek protection of the Democrat tribe to which he's contributed hundreds of millions of dollars. And I think it's worked. I mean, you look at the mainstream media coverage of this, the New York Times coverage of it, which we talked about in a previous episode of the show. They wrote an article about Epstein's ties to Silicon Valley. Other people who had far less extensive of a relationship with
[01:28:35] Epstein got paragraphs in that story. Reed Hoffman was only mentioned in one sentence along with three other people. So, he does seem to be getting a pass from, you know, Michael, if you know, you want to characterize this as a feeding frenzy or moral panic or a Syria or what have you, whatever it is, he seems to be getting a pass from the media. And my point about this has not been to accuse Reed of crimes because I
[01:29:00] don't think we have any basis for that whatsoever. Let me just state that clearly. My >> is there a fallacy of all this then? >> No. Well, let me let me me get to that. My my point has just been that the media needs to cover this >> in a fair and even-handed way as opposed to like you said weaponizing it to go after the people they don't like because there's political advantage in that. Or another parallel is Hillary Clinton just
[01:29:22] came out this week and gave an interview on the BBC where she said we the Clintons, Bill and I, we had no real connections with Epstein, but Donald Trump, we can just assume as unassalably true that he's in the process of orchestrating a cover up because he has something to hide. Now, and then on on the other hand, Trump will toggle back and forth between uh Bill Clinton and Larry Summers and Reed Hoffman. They're the ones who are
[01:29:47] truly implicated by their association with Epstein. I had nothing really to do with the guy. And then the next day he'll say, &quot;Oh, I'm a little upset or rofal that Bill Clinton's been dragged into this mess.&quot; And it just gets, you know, framed around, organized around just like a partisan battering ram. And it just becomes incredibly tedious because there doesn't even have to be anymore any concrete allegation of any
[01:30:10] wrongdoing whatsoever. There's no credible allegation of any pedophilic wrongdoing by either Donald Trump, Bill Clinton, Reed Hoffman, Elon Musk, anybody. It's like what are we talking about here? Ultimately, we're like in this other domain of like who can establish the most damning guilt by association even though nobody can spell out what the guilt is supposed to be tied to. >> Well, and but here's the question is why
[01:30:32] did Reed so brazenly lie about his relationship with Epstein? It could just be >> why do you have a lipnic lie? Well, it could just be that he wants to protect his reputation in business by minimizing the association. But obviously, when you lie that extensively and that brazenly about it, it is going to make people think that you have something to cover up. And you know, I think that >> people think a lot of dumb things. I
[01:30:58] mean, is there like any evidence at all that would that would tie Reed Hoffin to some kind of child sex crime? Not >> I'm not accusing him of that. So if people think that's what's being covered up, then they should be disabused of that facious notion rather than countenancing the notion and allowing the mass hysteria to continue proliferating unhindered. >> Can I ask you something, Michael? What evidence is there for um so on the
[01:31:23] island or in general? What evidence is there that um people were being trafficked? Maybe not minors. Uh, did that actually were people actually going to the island for that purpose? Was that that extensive or not? >> It's impossible to know what people even mean by trafficking anymore. Trafficking is an incredibly nebulous concept. It's very much open to the whims and discretion of prosecutors who seek to fit some fact pattern to a desire to
[01:31:54] prosecute somebody for some sort of t, you know, sexual related offense. if it involves simply facilitating the movements of somebody from point A to point B. So if adult women consensually flew on an airplane to go visit a luxury island in the Caribbean and over the course of that visit maybe they engage in some consensual sex act and then 20 years later they can retroactively classify it as trafficking and that will
[01:32:22] entitle them to like millions of dollars in taxfree settlement money. Are we going to take at face value that that constitutes trafficking? because I don't. So I'm I'm always a little bit mystified as to what we're supposed to understand as trafficking. Now, >> so your overall perspective on this is basically that a lot of the discourse about this is constructed and we don't really understand the underlying facts.
[01:32:41] Is that your >> I mean I understand the underlying facts to the greatest degree that I can ascertain them. And I think that they're they are just chronically and almost unbelievably mischaracterized everywhere you look. >> Let me get you to react to this tweet that someone just at mentioned you on. Uh oh, here we go. >> A brilliant uh feedback. Um >> well, this is Okay, this is a guy. I don't know this guy. Present witness. Um
[01:33:07] but this is what he's saying is the evidence. Okay, so I just, you know, I want to get your reaction to Well, let me read this for people who are just listening and can't see the screen and then I'll get your reaction to it. So he he says, here's the evidence. $160 million from Leon Black, $50 million townhouse and power of attorney over Wexner's estate. Cameras in his residence wired by Israeli government. Compromising photos of Prince Andrew
[01:33:29] Clint, etc. Confirmed sex trafficking of underage girls from Maxwell Brunell and others. Teaching job with William Bar Princy's CIA. Kosogi was a client of Epstein. Princes moneyaundering for intelligence. Adviser to Ehood Barack and the Rothschilds. Rumler chief who was a chief legal officer of Goldman Sachs and former White House counsel under Obama was a key adviser and backup executive as well. There are millions of files
[01:33:55] still redacted. None have been released by CA, State Department. This is just the tip of the iceberg. Anyone telling you that there's nothing to see here is attempting to whitewash the most important revealing intelligence related story of our lifetimes. And then he calls you out here. Michael Tracy doesn't understand the difference between evidence and proof and is cynically exploiting sexually abused women for engagement.
[01:34:15] >> Okay. I mean, first of all, I don't know what that guy is even arguing all that stuff is supposed to be evidence of. like what is the ultimate contention that he's claiming those myriad scattered data points are supposed to justify? I mean it it that's that's why that's what's so strange about this story. Nobody can really ever articulate like Sager struggled to articulate what I suspect actually is his ultimate
[01:34:40] belief which is that there was some kind of pedot trafficking operation. like he I think said that he agreed with the Thomas Massie quote that I read out to him, but on its face that's sort of like a bizarre statement to make. So, they latch on to this other peripheral stuff around intelligence and whatnot. And that guy said, &quot;How dare anyone ever say there's nothing to see here?&quot; And he ascribed that to me. I've never said there's
[01:35:04] nothing to see here. People tell me all the time that I allegedly have said there's nothing to see here, but I don't say that at all. I'm pretty much as obsessed, if not more obsessed with this story than anyone at this point to a degree that's probably not very healthy like mentally. >> Obsessed with it, but hold on. You're obsessed with Hold on, Michael. Let me just let me ask you about that. >> You're obsessed with it in the sense
[01:35:28] that you think this is a modern-day Salem witch trial, >> right? Which is fascinating. >> Yeah. So you're fascinated from like a sociological standpoint which is have humans evolved beyond you know where they were hundreds of years ago engaging in witch hunts and things like that or do you think it's interesting in other ways? >> I think it's interesting in other ways definitely in that way as well but there are other ways in which it's
[01:35:52] interesting. I think it's almost interesting as an anthropological survey of sorts among you know elites movers and shakers you could say where Epstein did have this extraordinary ability to network and to convene people who probably otherwise would never have been convened. So I've been saying that I think Jeffrey Epstein is the only man on earth who could have brought together for a friendly social pow-wow Nam Chosky
[01:36:20] and Steve Bannon. Like I'm almost jealous of that. I mean, I'm sure that would have been a very fascinating discussion to listen in on, right? And there are other examples. And so, I think it's interesting from that perspective. I mean, I think everything that every little piece of information that can be uncovered about Jeffrey Epstein's life is now almost intrinsically interesting just given the salience of the story, right? So, I
[01:36:44] guess I'm interested just from that perspective because like obviously he's now a historic or world historic even figure. And so, yeah, I'm always I'm always down to find out something new about what Jeffrey was up to. So, sure, I think it's interesting politically just in terms of how this can be leveraged into some sort of political battering ram against enemies. And, you know, this is like the number one oppositional Trump narrative of the
[01:37:12] second term. It's almost Russia gate redux in the outsized prominence that ep that uh Democrats are giving it in terms of what they bring up day after day in hopes of it undercutting Trump or beding him. So >> yeah, it it doesn't have to be like the the new new Russia gate in in that way where every possible >> tangential fact is somehow connected >> and it the whole thing kind of metastizes and is used in a partisan
[01:37:43] weaponized way. >> Yeah. And but but it's different in that there's an international component like this is the number one scandal right now that's ravaging Norway, Slovakia, I was mentioning obviously Great Britain today, other places, you know, United Arab Emirates, um name your country. So there's like it's been internationalized, which is just fascinating as well. The didn't didn't they burn like an effigy of Jeffrey
[01:38:06] Epstein in Iran or something? I mean it just never ends. So of course there's like infinite fascinating material at least to me. I just don't accept that in order to be fascinated by this, we must buy, we must, you know, have this weird epistemology where we can just collect all these discrepant little pieces of information, blast them out on the internet, and then just think that we've done the argumentative and logical work
[01:38:32] necessarily necessary to somehow establish how that proves our ultimate notions about what the story is supposed to signify, which again is pedophilic sex trafficking. enforced by blackmail that ens snared prominent individuals at the direction of some intelligence agency. That's the crux of the Epstein mythology and it's been systematically unraveled including you know partially by this the disclosure of more Epstein files but
[01:38:58] even prior to January 30th or December 19th the two productions there was never any credible evidence for any of it. So yeah, I am fascinated in terms of how people come to believe such mythological things and the journalistic malfeasants again that has been characterizing the story as well is is of particular interest to me because they it's been a central factor in how the mythology has been allowed to just kind of proliferate
[01:39:25] without any counterveailing point of view being put to it. All right, I think that's a pretty good place for us to wrap up. Kevin, do you have any final thoughts? >> Um, I'll just continue releasing some of this stuff. I uh I tend to agree with Michael, but um you know, I also think that sticking to the facts is also very important too and and telling the truth is is important in both directions as well. So, >> can I can I just make one concluding
[01:39:53] thought? I I actually do think it's, you know, I'm I'm happy for this opportunity to speak on your podcast. I assume I'm reaching an audience that probably would not not otherwise hear of me to a large extent and because I do think it's actually very disturbing that so many people around the world are being told that it's somehow been proven or vindicated that there is a massive child rape ring or that there were mass child
[01:40:16] rapes that were allowed to be perpetrated by the highest levels of government and then were covered up because as I mentioned on Piers Morgan this week, it's very easy to imagine how people with a predisposition toward mental illness who hear this stuff and believe it might be driven to do something like homicidally crazy. So, I'm not predicting anything in particular. I just think it's it's probably the most
[01:40:41] explosive thing to tell the mass public in terms of what it might incite particular people with a particular mental instability to to to do. So, I mean, that's just one of the potentially detrimental effects of all this that I think it should be rationally countered to the maximum extent possible. And I think we're going to be beset with this issue for the foreseeable future. So, at a certain point, I don't know, maybe
[01:41:11] there should be a little bit more momentum behind providing some degree of a rational corrective. I mean, or does it is it just me? I mean, am I the only guy who's going to be doing this forever more? I mean there's some more who have like come to take on a little bit more of a skeptical perspective but >> well I think we we have we should be cognizant of the real world ramifications rather than just speaking
[01:41:32] about it in the abstract or who suffers more Reed Hoffman versus Elon Musk or all this other stuff. I think it it really is a crazym thing that's been inculcated in the public. >> Yeah. Well look I think both of you have performed very valuable services for the public in regards to this whole episode. I think Michael, you are asking really important questions about evidentary standards and what is the basis for some of the more let's call
[01:41:57] them Epste maximalist claims out there again about this global pedophile ring and so forth and I think you're right that when you're talking about crimes you have to be evidence-driven and there is a little bit of a feeding frenzy here and it is appropriate to ask what the motivations are of everyone involved in the story and you're one of the only people who are doing it although it does seem like you are making a There does
[01:42:20] seem to be a vibe shift a little bit around what you're doing. >> Yeah. Most people who are have like who have their brains wired in a normal way, which would not include me, you know, would probably have an like a negative emotional reaction to being inundated day in and day out with accusations of personally being a pedophile or harboring like depraved sexual fantasies of >> children or whatever. But like, you
[01:42:42] know, obviously that is not the case for me. But I can withstand it because I'm used to the torrent of vitriol. But most people, I think, probably would be dissuaded from taking a certain angle on a certain subject if that's what they had to endure. >> Well, the mob does not like being accused of being a mob. And their defense mechanism seems to be to accuse anyone who points out some of these problems and the the logic of basically
[01:43:08] somehow being involved in in the crimes that they're alleging. So in any event, I I I do think that you are performing a valuable service. You know, when Hollywood dramatizes this, it's um you know, it's like Henry Fonda and the Oxbow incident or maybe it's Gregory Pek and Tequila Mockingbird. You've got a mob and you have this one lone figure who's standing up thwart the mob trying to talk sense into them. And