[00:14:03] circumstances of which that arose. However, I don't think Michael, you would even deny that his access to wealth, power, and money did eventually allow him to get off with the 2007 nonprosecution agreement and the eventual sweetheart deal uh that he gets with his hiring. I wouldn't agree with that, actually. Well, I mean, I don't think the average Joe can just hire Ken Star and uh private investigators and lawyers to tell some of the
[00:14:26] >> Oh, sure. I mean, his vast wealth enables him to secure very high power legal represent representation. >> That's what I'm claiming. This whole concept of a sweetheart deal is a total canar that Brown. >> Michael, I don't want to get off on that yet, but just go back to my original question of what is your 30,000 ft take on what this story is about? Who was this guy in your view? >> I will answer that. However, I do want
[00:14:49] to just stipulate upfront that I think this reflex to have to offer some kind of totalistic assessment of who Jeffrey Epstein was at, his very essence has fed into so much of the constant churn of algorithmic slop that has generated this hysterical frenzy around this issue and has led to people being totally deluded about what we're even talking about. What do most people I I I have some surmises about Jeffrey Epsteine. He
[00:15:16] definitely was a money manager who, as you mentioned, was sort of like this Zelig character who did have an extraordinary cross-section of connections with people from across fields. And, you know, I just was looking through some of these records in the new Epstein Files Productions, and I was looking for something else, but there are there's an archive of these old message pads that he had at his Palm Beach house
[00:15:38] >> and I'm scrolling through and it turns out Holly Berry left him a couple of messages. I had no idea that Holly Berry was ever in contact with Jeffrey Epstein. So you can always find somebody new and novel who apparently had a one dealing or another with him. But why are we talking about Jeffrey Epstein right now in February of 2026 >> because PE he is believed to have been the most prolific child sex trafficker
[00:16:02] in American or perhaps world history which is why this issue might now take down the British government. It's embroiling Norway. A minister in Slovakia had to resign over it. There's a new criminal investigation that was just launched in France, etc. That's what people conceive Jeffrey Epstein to have been. And that whole notion is based on just an onslaught of mythological nonsense that's pumped out daily by these YouTube shows, I won't
[00:16:32] mention names, podcasts, etc., social media personalities who are driven by these perverse algorithmic incentives to be totally divorced from the facts. foreground this rampant speculation that ties in the Mossad, ties in unnamed other intelligence agencies with this presumed implication or this presumed uh reality that of course we know for sure that Jeffrey Epste was running this pedto crime ring and we all so they they
[00:17:03] presuppose a conclusion that's just been floating out there in the ether thanks to all this horrendous media coverage. I think this is the worst story of my adult lifetime in terms of the media coverage and it implicates the alternative media, the mainstream media and everybody in between. It's actually shocking. I will predict here and now that if we revisit this issue in I don't know two or three years, people will
[00:17:25] come to realize if I have anything to do with it that they were bamboozled on a mass scale. There's genuine fraud that has been rampant in ter the journalistic malfeasants. We're not supposed to ever consider the massive financial incentives where the Epstein industry is now something like I've estimated a billion dollars in terms of the payouts that have been given to purported victims who are allowed to just
[00:17:49] reimagine things that happened to them 20 years before as an adult, not as a child, but adult at the time of their claim victimization and then call themselves a sex trafficking victim and then they can secure a couple million dollars tax-free from JP Morgan and the media will hail them as these brave survivors without doing a single thing to check the veracity of any of their claims. You know why people are so upset
[00:18:12] about these redactions in the Epstein files? And I'm upset too. I criticized Thomas Massie and Roana for the language of their bill that they crafted, the Epstein Files Transparency Act, which they crafted in concert with Bradley Edwards, this extortionist quote unquote victim's lawyer who's made a killing on this issue over the past 10 years in conjunction with David Boy, another shyer. and Bradley Edwards at his urging
[00:18:37] Roan and Thomas Massie put in this giant carveout to so-called transparency and disclosure into their bill such that the DOJ was authorized to redact or withhold or conceal any information that could be the most tangentially tied to anything that's quote victim identifying. So, they've been arguing frantically in federal court for the past few months that they're opposed to the disclosure of Epstein files because it's going to
[00:19:02] terrorize all these belleaguered women. I don't know. Do you think that maybe if we did get full transparency, it might disrupt this sanitized quote survivor narrative that everybody pushes so credulously? I'll just give you one example and I don't want to go on for too long and I there's so many uh threads that I could pull here that you have to kind of rein me in. But one narrative that could disrupt if we
[00:19:24] actually did get genuine disclosure, which we're not. And in fact, Edwards at all demanded that the entire archive be taken down because this disclosure was just too horrendously threatening to them. We would maybe get more insight into some of the government propaganda that's been allowed to promugate unchecked. Sag, I wonder if you've corrected this on breaking points. You can let me know. But for months, >> people politicians across the media the
[00:19:51] the political spectrum as well as the media at large have unthinkingly regurgitated this figure that there were over a thousand victims of Jeffrey Epstein. Sometimes that gets upgraded to thousands of victims. That's what pre uh Primila Japal said at the Bondi hearing last week. Ro Connor constantly blurts out this whole this claim of over a thousand survivors. And this is based on the July 6th, 2025 FBI DOJ memo which
[00:20:15] claimed that they after a review of the evidence after the second Trump administration came in, they found that over 1,000 victims were quote harmed by Epstein. So they used this very conspicuous conspicuous weasel wordage and it was very dubious to me the instant I read it. Turns out, you know, thank God on some level for the Epstein files because there is a major revelation contained therein, which is that this whole this number is a fraud.
[00:20:39] It's bogus. They they they admit in FBI memoranda that this number is based on a total of purported victims, the majority of whom were would have been adults at the time of their claim victimization. Anyway, but it that includes the family members of alleged victims in that total number that's been how many alleged victims are there? >> Well, who knows? Why is the government deceiving the public about it? If people
[00:21:05] want to be mad about Michael tell him Pam Bonnie for putting out that phony propagandistic figure and then have it be repeated adnauseium without the slightest bit of critical discernment. >> Well, I do, Michael. I think we can at least agree that Cash Patel and Pam Bondi haven't uh handled this all that responsibly on that particular issue. >> Oh, oh, well, I mean, you're asking me to correct the record of something I've
[00:21:27] never even uttered. I've never said the word. It's literally not something that I've ever claimed. I mean, I do think, Michael, uh, that what you like to do is to go after, and really, I think fundamentally, I'm not even sure if you would reject this. You reject the idea of victimization, that post victimization, uh, can't even happen. And I also, I don't even necessarily want to get the idea of victimization. I
[00:21:48] don't even know what that means. >> Well, you reject the idea that women could be victimized, uh, let's say, by Jeffrey Epste, manipulated. Yes. in even if some cases money were exchanging hands. I will say, by the way, that just paying or flying in adult women from Eastern Europe to for the express purposes of having sex is a crime, by the way. Sure, it's not underage. However, we do have the 2007 draft indictment where there were a number of
[00:22:09] underage victims that were mentioned there where Epstein specifically asked a 15-year-old if he knows anybody who's younger uh that he could be able to recruited. And so, I do think your core contention that at the end of the day, he was a quote pedophile uh is definitely illegitimate. But I also don't necessarily want to get dragged into the victim uh stuff which I think that you are fundamentally focused on
[00:22:29] because I do think when you're saying why are people talking about this? It confirms a general suspicion of the way that people act with impunity at the highest levels of American or global society in terms of their moral character in terms of their dealings let's say financially and uh you know you like to brush across this intelligence question. I actually I would love for you to be able to just grapple with some of the facts, you
[00:22:52] know, necessarily just related today where the Israeli government was installing surveillance equipment in Epstein-owned apartment but used for the former prime minister of Israel, Aud Barack, where we have Aud Barack and Epstein uh joking questioningly about Mossad where Epstein is foying 1999 the CIA for any mention of himself for the very dealings that he himself had with the arms dealing industry in the 1980s
[00:23:16] for the fact that he had a false Austrian passport at the age of 29 years old. Austria being the capital of spies long before he ever became, you know, very filthy rich. And so, Michael, I think what you're obiscating is a general interest in the story. And often that what you try to do is find the lowest IQ, most maximalist people talking about cannibals or anything like that and then paint that as a but I barely mentioned the cannibalism
[00:23:44] stuff. I mean, of course, you're trying to Yeah, you paint the rest of us who believe, let's say, in some of a bigger part of this story as >> I mean, if you believe if you believe that we can just accept at face value that a 21-year-old model who accepted an invitation to visit Jeffre Island when she was in the British false pretenses, let me finish under false pretenses by Jean Luke Brunell. And you've looked
[00:24:08] into it. No, it had nothing to do with it. This is nonsense. I mean, I'm >> Tell me if you've looked into what I'm about to describe. Can I have 30 seconds to describe it? >> All right. Uh, go ahead. >> Lisa Phillips, who was one of the women, quote, survivors who spoke at these press conferences in front of the US capital and infamously declared that she and her fellow survivors were going to create their own list of Epstein clients
[00:24:30] and then hand it over to Marjorie Taylor Green and Thomas Massie so they could read it out on the floor of the House of Representatives under the protections of the speech and debate clause and caused a giant media firestorm. As I don't have to remind you, her whole tale of victimization is that at age 21 as a professional model, she was on a photo shoot in the British Virgin Islands. Another girl, you know, or young woman
[00:24:52] that she was with invited her to take a ferry to Jeffrey Epstein's island in the US Virgin Islands. She accepted. She never claimed victimization for likeif or 20 years. She's on a podcast in 2020 saying, &quot;Gee whiz, I never heard anything about all this crazy Epstein stuff, but I knew him and I I don't know what went happened there.&quot; Then all of a sudden, JP Morgan opens its floodgates for settlements of, you know, $290
[00:25:18] million. You know, I know like we're not supposed to acknowledge human nature about what that can incentivize on this particular subject. I mean, explain that to me. And she now claims that we're supposed to just take her to be a survivor. She was the one one of the women who also stood up and protested Pam Bondi last week. So yes, Sager, if you do take at face value that that person can be rightly designated as a
[00:25:40] victim and fuel and fment this giant worldwide pedophilia crisis that we're supposedly in the midst of, then I don't know. I mean, I consider you to have a pretty high IQ and that's just not some like random on social media talking about cannibals. So you tell me if you agree that that's a legitimate case of victimization and it should be just on the classic example of selecting somebody. Look, I'm not here to defend
[00:26:04] every so-called Epstein victim. Because, by the way, I think that what you do very expertly is finding people like Lisa Phillips and then trying to portray all of them of that sort. Like, would you deny that vast wire transfers were sent to Eastern Europe to fly in women for the express purposes of sex? Because that is women. Okay. Is that not a crime, Michael? Have you Googled the man act? I mean for somebody who has
[00:26:27] actually looked into prostitution I mean this is what I'm talking about is that by the way also you have not yet grappled with the 2007 draft indictment there okay I mean look I have unfortunately very limited amount of time out for that hold on guys so told us um up front that he only had half an hour so okay >> you know we don't have that much time listen let me ask you a couple other questions and then once leaves Michael
[00:26:51] we can get you to say what you want to say I want to go to the less waxner deposition the other day. What did we learn from that specifically about how Epstein got his start? I do think that there are these questions about again who this guy was, how did he accumulate hundreds of millions of dollars so early in his career? How did he seem to um obtain all these different uh connections specifically to the intelligence world? Did any of that get
[00:27:22] resolved? And what what's your take on that? >> No, David, it wasn't resolved. Unfortunately, the entire transcript is not public. What we do know from the House Oversight Committee, at least what's been released now so far is Leslie Wexner said he was never questioned ever once by the FBI or the Department of Justice involving this case. I will say if you look at the track record of Leslie Wexner, it's incredibly bizarre. He claims that
[00:27:44] Epstein was a con man who stole his money for decades. In 1991, we had the power of attorney that was signed over to him. He claims that Epstein was a financial genius and a wizard. We have the transferring of the town home which eventually there was some payment uh that was reconciled uh on the back end. But an incredible amount of control that Jeffrey Epstein had over Leslie Wexner's finances over the Wexner Foundation
[00:28:06] which he used to funnel money to Aud Barack the former prime minister of Israel support many Zionist causes under the Wexner Foundation including the Wexner Fellowship currently at Harvard University. I do think it's important for us to explore some more of that. There's some very odd dealings with the beginnings of their relationship. Previous Epstein associates have testified that in 1992, which is shortly
[00:28:27] after power of attorney and all of that uh was acquired or the relationship, sorry, between Epstein and Wexner began, is that much of Epstein's lifestyle exploded. Wexner does not even dispute uh that Epstein had vast control over his finances and even claims that he was stolen from by Jeffrey Epste that their uh relationship is supposed to have ended sometime I think in 2007 but he has not yet answered questions about
[00:28:51] this relationship in an open public forum beyond some statements and he currently did issue an opening statement for the record. I personally would like to see the release of that transcript. I mean all for transparency here in this particular case. He's an 88-year-old man and I do think it's genuinely bizarre. Oh, and not to even mention the modeling uh industry uh which you know ep which Wexner himself was involved with and
[00:29:14] there's several emails including Wexner's own crude drawing in the Epstein birthday book involving boobs that he said that's all Epstein ever wanted. So there be their relationship is bizarre goes back decades. Wexner maintains as I said that he was conned and that he was stolen from. I don't really believe much of that story. Uh, Michael, you and I have now read thousands of Epstein emails. There's no sophisticated financial instruments
[00:29:40] going on. Uh, even back to the very beginnings of Jeffrey Epstein's claims here about managing money. Almost none of it passes the smelter. David, you're a very high net worth individual. You can go to Goldbin Sachs or many other financial houses and get teams of people to manage money for sophisticated uh, financial instruments and others not available to the rest of us. be very odd for you to turn over your finances to to
[00:30:04] Jeffrey Epstein. >> Yeah. So, he he began his career, I guess, at Bear Sterns. I guess it was a brief stint where he worked I guess he one of the curious things about him is he dropped out of college around age 20. >> I guess he was studying math. He then was a teacher at the Dalton School for like a year, >> correct? >> And then he worked at Bear Sterns for four years. >> He met Ace Greenberg through the Dalton