[00:28:06] which he used to funnel money to Aud Barack the former prime minister of Israel support many Zionist causes under the Wexner Foundation including the Wexner Fellowship currently at Harvard University. I do think it's important for us to explore some more of that. There's some very odd dealings with the beginnings of their relationship. Previous Epstein associates have testified that in 1992, which is shortly
[00:28:27] after power of attorney and all of that uh was acquired or the relationship, sorry, between Epstein and Wexner began, is that much of Epstein's lifestyle exploded. Wexner does not even dispute uh that Epstein had vast control over his finances and even claims that he was stolen from by Jeffrey Epste that their uh relationship is supposed to have ended sometime I think in 2007 but he has not yet answered questions about
[00:28:51] this relationship in an open public forum beyond some statements and he currently did issue an opening statement for the record. I personally would like to see the release of that transcript. I mean all for transparency here in this particular case. He's an 88-year-old man and I do think it's genuinely bizarre. Oh, and not to even mention the modeling uh industry uh which you know ep which Wexner himself was involved with and
[00:29:14] there's several emails including Wexner's own crude drawing in the Epstein birthday book involving boobs that he said that's all Epstein ever wanted. So there be their relationship is bizarre goes back decades. Wexner maintains as I said that he was conned and that he was stolen from. I don't really believe much of that story. Uh, Michael, you and I have now read thousands of Epstein emails. There's no sophisticated financial instruments
[00:29:40] going on. Uh, even back to the very beginnings of Jeffrey Epstein's claims here about managing money. Almost none of it passes the smelter. David, you're a very high net worth individual. You can go to Goldbin Sachs or many other financial houses and get teams of people to manage money for sophisticated uh, financial instruments and others not available to the rest of us. be very odd for you to turn over your finances to to
[00:30:04] Jeffrey Epstein. >> Yeah. So, he he began his career, I guess, at Bear Sterns. I guess it was a brief stint where he worked I guess he one of the curious things about him is he dropped out of college around age 20. >> I guess he was studying math. He then was a teacher at the Dalton School for like a year, >> correct? >> And then he worked at Bear Sterns for four years. >> He met Ace Greenberg through the Dalton
[00:30:26] School. Greenberg's I think it was it was either one of his children uh was there and then he went to Bear Sterns. He's fired from Beer Sterns after a couple of years and that's when his descent into what I call like the darkness his expertise in moneyaundering. I believe that that's when it was honed as reflects in the record and the testimony of the people who dealt with him there at the time including the false passport Iran
[00:30:46] contour arm smuggling and all of that that I've laid out. >> S can I ask you a quick question because I know you have to go soon. I'm I'm honestly curious if you would agree with the statement from Thomas Massie. This is from >> Okay. February 16th, he says, quote, &quot;We're exposing the extent of Epstein's global pedophile ring and how it touches our government and aristocracy.&quot; So, do you think it's a factually valid
[00:31:08] statement that what we know to have taken place and maybe even is still ongoing is a quote global pedophile ring? Well, I mean, when what you're asking about a global pedophile ring, it was well, sorry, >> this is Thomas Massie saying >> Thomas Massie, a global pedophile ring is a ring of global elites who seemed aware and perhaps participated in the abuse of underage children. Now, Michael, I will grant you this and what
[00:31:37] I respect. Well, no, I will grant you this. What I think you do well is to parse the actual individual claim of many of the victims and others that are out there. And I actually think you have a great role in this ecosystem for debunking especially some of the lowest IQ content which is out there like you did with the torture video. So I do want to appreciate you for doing that. >> That was low hanging fruit. I mean I
[00:31:57] don't I don't really appreciate this idea that I only focus on low IQ social media blushia of all this sag. >> Yes, I know you have. Jeffrey Epste is just casually called a pedophile virtually everywhere in the media and among every politician much of your what he is nobody thought because he would like to pre post pubar don't you find it bizarre that for all the enormous media resources that have been poured into this story over the
[00:32:30] past however many years among by newspapers magazines podcast specials you name it I guess I'm the only one who ever thought to actually go into the Florida court document and pull up the transcript of the plea hearing in June of 2008 when he entered his two guilty pleas for two state level prostitution charges and he's called a convicted pedophile adnauseium. It turns out the sole minor victim who was cited in that plea
[00:32:57] hearing as the sole minor to whom he procured for prostitution was literally 17 years old. Yes, Michael. I understand that because they picked the oldest person in the indictment to plead guilty to and there's a 14 15year-old which is named in the 2007 draft indictment which was released. Michael, you're focusing I I am focusing on a federal document. Uh there's a federal document which specifically alleges a 14 and 15year-old
[00:33:21] who are abusing including asking a 15year-old if there is this 2007 draft. You have read it. You're going to take as dispositive. >> Well, I I'm not going to Okay. Unfortunately, it was never uh never contested because of the plea agreement which eventually came forward. I mean, I think you're using the same tactic Alan Dersowitz did in his defense. Unfortunately, I have nothing to do with Dersuits or I don't share his tactical
[00:33:42] maneuver. >> I unfortunately have to take my child to a doctor's appointment as I flagged uh to do uh and uh in the beginning of this entire thing. And I do >> I think you'd be operating in good faith as well. Sager for the most part unlike a lot of people who have glombmed onto this story and you're willing to you know engage on the substance. So that again is appreciated by me and you know whenever you'd like to engage further
[00:34:05] I'm always available. >> All right Michael uh thank you David for the invitation. >> Yes. Thank you for coming Saga. Appreciate it. All right. So Michael let me kind of reset here. >> Okay. I'm I'm not sure you've had a chance to kind of lay out your case for what you called Epstein mythology. >> Yeah. >> So, I want to give you a chance to kind of just lay out your thesis here that what's happening is actually a type of
[00:34:29] moral panic or feeding frenzy, a type of hysteria. You've compared it to the Salem witch trials. >> Yeah. >> There was also the case in the 1980s of the whole day child abuse. >> Satanic panic. the satanic >> where I think hundreds of people went to jail or were prosecuted for that. It turned out >> I don't know if it was hundreds but more than enough to make it a extreme miscarriage of justice. >> So that's the comparison you've made. So
[00:34:54] I guess I want to let you lay out that case in a clear way cuz I'm not sure that you've had a chance to quite do that yet. >> I mean I definitely laid out my case on this score in many other venues and on many other occasions but I guess not on this particular podcast yet. So, I'm happy to sketch it out. In terms of the satanic panic parallel, that's not one that I would have necessarily been most inclined to bring up until recently just
[00:35:20] because there's now this new layer of the mythology that's added been added with the production of these Epstein quote files where people are reading snippets of emails to signify some kind of coded messaging around cannibalism or around grotesque child sacrifice. that really wasn't a hallmark of the Epstein story so much before this enormous tunch of emails were released. And it relates to the satanic panic frenzy in so far as
[00:35:52] claims around such things as like truly grotesque child sacrifice, mutilation of infants, you know, bathing toddlers in blood. Like all the most nightmarish scenarios you could possibly dream up were alleged in the 1980s and taken deadly seriously by the authorities resulting in as you alluded to a good number of people actually being thrown in prison for many years and it was turn it was found to be just a gigantic hoax. Um, but maybe a more
[00:36:25] apt parallel that also would have been apt even before this latest record production is that the satanic panic frenzy of the 1980s was ultimately concluded to have originated really with one woman who was just straightforwardly mentally ill, delusional, needed to essentially be institutionalized. And yet she would make claims about sex child sex abuse that the authorities countenanced or gave credence to. And there's a similar
[00:36:53] thing going on with the Epstein mythology. Now, when I mention the Epstein mythology, I'm not talking about the 2007208 Florida nonprosecution agreement or that whole scenario that Sager brought up in peace meal before. That's a different element of this whole story. The mythology developed later, mostly around 2014 with the introduction of these new claims by Virginia Roberts Guay and her lawyers Bradley Edwards, Paul Cassell,
[00:37:21] later David Boy in which she alleged that she had been child sex traffked around the world and that she knew that Epstein enforced this child sex trafficking operation via blackmail. And also she made specific allegations against three particular individuals. Alan Dersowitz, Prince Andrew, John Luke Brunell, and then also she accused a generic category of other high-profile trial persons who she didn't specify as
[00:37:52] also victimizing her like prime ministers and um uh politicians and presidents and so forth. Um, so that's the basically the origin of what I would call the mythology, which is just sort of a different order or magnitude than the initial Palm Beach prosecution, which was effectively a local crime. But in terms of the mythol, the parallel to the satanic panic, Virginia Roberts Kufra was a profoundly disturbed mentally unwell person who was
[00:38:24] validated and legitimized and now continues to be celebrated as some kind of martyr for truth. Even though if anybody had used a lick of discernment about as to her claims, it would have been found that she could not be treated so credulously. maybe she needed some help, but this idea that she would be the basis for this global scandal that's rocking all these countries is just outrageous. And there are two others who
[00:38:49] are fundament two other mentally ill women. And I don't say that even to be pjorative or derogatory at all. It's just objectively true. If you take a look, Maria Farmer is one of these other definitely mentally ill persons who, for example, introduced or was integral in introducing this idea that Epstein had cameras set up in all his bedrooms and bathrooms and was surreptitiously recording prominent people so he could
[00:39:11] use it for blackmail. And then another one, Sarah Ransom, was one of the people who spurred the mythology in large part around the island. So she came to claim after going through several mental health crisis that she had been systematically raped at the island even though when she actually had to eventually give a deposition. She really described nothing of the sort. She was also an adult when she went to the
[00:39:35] island voluntarily and she described what it was effectively a se a consensual you know minor sexual encounter with Epstein but she dramatized it radically in the wake and people don't know I mean David do you did you know this or does anybody know that there in the public know that despite everybody and their mother including like Rokan and Thomas Massie at all declaring that the Epstein property in the US Virgin Islands the
[00:40:02] private island that it's rape island or pedophile island that there's never been a credible allegation of rape ever discovered that that take that took place on that island. Like is that well known or am I crazy? >> No, it's not well known. The only reason I knew is because I've heard you on a couple of podcasts. So, I thought it was important to get you on as a counterpoint. So, just with respect to these three women, they did go to the
[00:40:26] island. Is is that true? >> Sarah Ransom did. >> Okay. >> Um Maria Farmer, no. Maria Farmer is the one who purported that she was actually the original Epstein accuser and she was this great hero whistleblower because she tried to sound the alarm way before all these other females were abused. She claims that in 1996 after she had been a 25-year-old employee of Epstein's who basically sat at his front desk in his New York
[00:40:57] townhouse that she was invited and accepted uh to go to the Ohio compound of Lexley Wexner to be an artist and residence of sorts because she was a paint a painter. And then she claimed that over the course of her interactions with Epstein and Maxwell, she ended up filing a first an attempted police report and then went to the FBI. And she never really specified what it is that she claimed that she reported to the FBI
[00:41:23] with any clarity. But she told this tale about how Epstein had supposedly stolen these photographs that she had produced of her younger sisters who were below the age of 18 so that she could use those photographs to paint paintings of her younger sisters in the nude. Now, I don't know. I mean, I guess that's a confession to production of child pornography, but technically speaking, but you know, um, but that's what she
[00:41:45] claimed. And then she also added that she had been sexually assaulted or abused or raped by both Epstein and Maxwell. And somehow over the course of that assault at age 26, she had like a divine revelation literally and realized that they were both pedophiles. This is how she recounted it years after the fact. And if you look at the police that FBI intake report or the complaint that was memorialized that has come out in
[00:42:09] terms of the what was contemporaneously documented, she mentions nothing about a sexual assault. She mentions nothing about any kind of sex crime at all. She simply claims that these photos of hers were stolen and there's never been any evidence that those photos were actually stolen. So that's one person and she's come these and these three women ransom farmer uh Roberts Guay were all integral in different dimensions of the
[00:42:34] mythology. They were incredibly important named plaintiffs in critical litigation. They, you know, criminal investigations were launched based on the basis of her their claims in various respects. And they're all just profoundly mentally ill, erratic, and wholly unreliable to the degree that if we're going to have a international pedophilic mass hysteria narrative that's at all predicated on their claims, then we've entered into a
[00:42:59] fantasy land because it will never in the future hold up to any kind of rational re-evaluation or scrutiny at all. >> Okay. So, Robert Scufrey or VRG as as I think you've called her in your Substack. >> Yeah. >> When did she come forward with her? >> Yeah. >> Her story >> cuz I she was the basis of that Netflix movie or documentary >> called Filthy Rich about about Epstein. You were saying that that happened >> after the whole 2008 Palm Beach.
[00:43:31] >> Yeah, I I'll I'll explain. by the way, Filthy Rich, which uh o over this past summer when the Epstein furer kind of got reignited, it like skyrocketed to like the one of the, you know, the top of the charts on Netflix once again. So that little piece of commercial commercial propaganda has been very determinative in terms of how people have had their perception shaped of this issue. And it is like literal propaganda
[00:43:57] I would argue in the sense that it was concocted as a PR vehicle for the victim quote unquote victims and especially their lawyers to create like a public clamor for some kind of remedial action to be taken against um Epstein's co-conspirators or more more relevantly his estate. It was it was a maneuver. It was a PR maneuver by a legal team who worked alongside the producers of that documentary as has as have been so much
[00:44:28] of the mass market entertainment products that have been produced around the Epstein affair. It's only taken from that one perspective of the purported victims and that perspective is shaped very carefully by their lawyers to create this sanitized survivor narrative that is now the predominant one. But in terms of her origins, yes, she um she initially filed some civil litigation around I want to say ' 09 2010 maybe 08 as a
[00:45:00] Jane Doe um maybe 2011 somewhere in that range as first as a Jane Doe meaning she wasn't named in the litigation and this related to a period of around 2001 2002 when she was in the Epstein orbit to some extent. And there's there's evidence that she was in the Epstein orbit to some extent. She's not hallucinating everything. I've argued that I would she's not so much a liar. I wouldn't say like I've never directly