[00:42:34] mythology. They were incredibly important named plaintiffs in critical litigation. They, you know, criminal investigations were launched based on the basis of her their claims in various respects. And they're all just profoundly mentally ill, erratic, and wholly unreliable to the degree that if we're going to have a international pedophilic mass hysteria narrative that's at all predicated on their claims, then we've entered into a
[00:42:59] fantasy land because it will never in the future hold up to any kind of rational re-evaluation or scrutiny at all. >> Okay. So, Robert Scufrey or VRG as as I think you've called her in your Substack. >> Yeah. >> When did she come forward with her? >> Yeah. >> Her story >> cuz I she was the basis of that Netflix movie or documentary >> called Filthy Rich about about Epstein. You were saying that that happened >> after the whole 2008 Palm Beach.
[00:43:31] >> Yeah, I I'll I'll explain. by the way, Filthy Rich, which uh o over this past summer when the Epstein furer kind of got reignited, it like skyrocketed to like the one of the, you know, the top of the charts on Netflix once again. So that little piece of commercial commercial propaganda has been very determinative in terms of how people have had their perception shaped of this issue. And it is like literal propaganda
[00:43:57] I would argue in the sense that it was concocted as a PR vehicle for the victim quote unquote victims and especially their lawyers to create like a public clamor for some kind of remedial action to be taken against um Epstein's co-conspirators or more more relevantly his estate. It was it was a maneuver. It was a PR maneuver by a legal team who worked alongside the producers of that documentary as has as have been so much
[00:44:28] of the mass market entertainment products that have been produced around the Epstein affair. It's only taken from that one perspective of the purported victims and that perspective is shaped very carefully by their lawyers to create this sanitized survivor narrative that is now the predominant one. But in terms of her origins, yes, she um she initially filed some civil litigation around I want to say ' 09 2010 maybe 08 as a
[00:45:00] Jane Doe um maybe 2011 somewhere in that range as first as a Jane Doe meaning she wasn't named in the litigation and this related to a period of around 2001 2002 when she was in the Epstein orbit to some extent. And there's there's evidence that she was in the Epstein orbit to some extent. She's not hallucinating everything. I've argued that I would she's not so much a liar. I wouldn't say like I've never directly
[00:45:27] accused her of lying about anything as such. I've called I've said that she's kind of confabulated an alternate reality. And that's a little bit different because it doesn't necessarily conote willful deceit and it's almost even more disturbing if you think about it. But >> what's your basis for that? The big one I guess is that in your view that she recanted her story about Dersowitz or >> Yeah, she recanted her story not just
[00:45:52] about Dersitz. That's maybe the most well-known instance of her recanting one of her marquee claims and it really only came about because Dersowitz was unusually motivated to actually pursue some sort of resolution through a very protracted litigation process against very highpowered lawyers. I mean, one of the fallacies here is that these survivors, quote unquote, such as Virginia, are taken to be these bleaguered victims, etc., who had no
[00:46:17] power at all in this dynamic, and yet, I mean, they were represented by some of the most powerful and skillful lawyers in the country, such as David Boyce, who's like one of the best known lawyers of all time and was hugely wellresourced and also, you know, Virginia Guay became incredibly wealthy. maybe not as wealthy as you, David, but you know, 20 estimates range from like 15, 20, $25 million. It's hard to know because a lot
[00:46:43] of the settlement details are secret. Um, so it wasn't just this hless victim who had nothing, no leg to stand on in order to make her claims, but yeah, Durowitz, she ended up recanting her allegations. And bear in mind, it wasn't just that she, you know, happened to level some accusation at some point, maybe in like casual banter. It's that she made allegations of herself having been victimized by Dersuit sexually on at least six or
[00:47:11] seven occasions. And she described each individual instance of that victimization in vivid, graphic, almost grotesque detail, describing Dersuit's body parts, sexual proclivities, etc. And she did this in sworn affidavit and under deposition. So could theoretically even be subject to perjury charges should a prosecutor ever have been inclined to bring them which of course they wouldn't have been in this environment. Um and but it goes much
[00:47:37] further. She had to recant claims against Harvard professor Steven Klin who she claims she had intercourse with. Um, she recanted even claims against John Luke Brunell, who's another sort of actor or a player in this whole story that leads people to make their postulations about there being this supposedly international sex trafficking ring because he was like a modeling mogul. But he ends up getting arrested
[00:48:00] by French authorities under pressure from the US in 2019 after Epstein himself was federally indicted and arrested. And given the vagaries of the French legal system, which I don't fully comprehend still in relation to the United States, he was in custody or incarcerated for quite a long time prior to any formal charges being brought. Eventually, she's called to provide evidence against Virginia is called from
[00:48:24] Australia to go to Paris to provide evidence against John Luke Bernell in 2021 in this format that is nothing that takes place in the US, but it's like where the both the defense and the prosecution have an ability to question or have colloquiz with the accuser. And she ends up having to retract her claims against him as well. And you know they her lawyers had to admit that this memoir that she produced or memoir
[00:48:45] manuscript that she produced in 2011 and 2012 that she was sort of scheming with this ghost writer who was potentially going to work with her, Sharon Churcher, a journalist at the Daily Mail. She was scheming about how they could get the biggest possible book deal or even like a movie deal or some kind of entertainment package deal. and she already had been paid 160,000 plus by the Daily Mail plus serialization
[00:49:08] revenue for having done an interview with them and given over the Prince Andrew photo and then they wanted to marshall or leverage that momentum publicity wise from the Daily Mail's articles in 2011 into a book and so Sharon Sarin Churcher in this email exchange you can go read it came ac yeah you know what just like throw throw anybody's name in you can think of who might have had the most fleeting association with Jeffrey Epstein
[00:49:32] And that'll get us the biggest possible book deal that'll entice the most publishers and agents. And as to Duritz, yeah, I mean, he's pretty well known and we all think he's a pedto, so throw him in there, too. I mean, that's what they're saying. Um, and >> wait, this is your interpretation of what happened. >> Almost literally what they say. I'm almost quoting ver I'm not exactly quoting. >> Who said that? Who said that?
[00:49:57] >> This is what Churcher says to Virginia Roberts Guay and she's all on board with it. Wait, how do we know that? >> Because we have the transcripts of the emails. >> Oh, wow. Okay. And >> they came out of the course of discovery in in litigation. >> And this person was >> she was a trash journalist. Yeah. Who was working on co-authoring the book with her or what was >> they were in talks for her to potentially be the co-author of the
[00:50:22] book. Uh, so they were they were sort of strategizing as to how they could get a book deal or get a literary agent to sign on with Virginia and get her a lucrative book deal. >> And then what what ended up happening? >> A draft manuscript was produced. I don't know exactly how involved Church was. >> Was there published or >> not initially? Finally, a version did eventually come out last October after Virginia Roberts phrase purported death
[00:50:54] in April of last year. And I only say purported because the circumstances of it are still bizarre. Look, I mean, I'm I I'm willing to grant that she is in fact dead at this point, but I mean that's another sort of tangent. But no, it didn't come out for a long time. a draft was produced and then the draft manuscript had to be had to be um um revealed or handed over over the course of litigation with Durowitz and
[00:51:17] her lawyers by the by 2017 to 2019 had to admit on her behalf so David Boy at all that this fiction that that this memoir manuscript which had been presented as non-fiction which was shopped around to potential book publishers as non-fiction which have been the basis for a lot of media coverage around these allegations as as though it were a non-fictional representation of her purported experiences. They finally have to admit
[00:51:45] that it was a fictionalized account of her purported experiences. So like for example, >> this is VRG's own lawyers ad like David Boy, >> right? Yep. So they basically said that this manuscript which had been the basis for her story and >> a lot of the mythology like Bill Clinton was on the island she claimed no evidence Bill Clinton was ever on the island. He did fly around in Epstein's private jet in 2002 and 2003 but no
[00:52:09] evidence he ever went to the island she saw him on the island and which is false as far as we as far as we know as far as all the available evidence has ever suggested. That probably is one of the most repeated claims in respect to Epstein, which is that Oakland was on the island. And you're saying that's just completely untrue. And that came from VRG's manuscript, which ultimately they had to admit was a work of fiction,
[00:52:32] not >> non-fiction, at least her own work. >> Correct. But to but what's so mindboggling is that just relatively recently after this whole blow up around Ebstein got ignited last July, the book publishers obviously realized that it was a highly profitable opportunity for them to produce some version of her manuscript in the form of a new memoir. Now, she had been working on a new version of it with another ghost writer for some time, Amy Wallace,
[00:53:04] but they obviously wanted to peg the publication of it to this renewed Epstein uproar. So, this her the memoir finally gets published in some capacity in October of last year. It becomes an international bestseller, not just in the United States, but in Britain, Australia, etc. And I'm still stunned. I mean, maybe I don't I can no longer really be stunned anymore, but it's still stunning to think back on how credulously the
[00:53:33] reception to that memoir was, even though I mean, it was basically just Amy Wallace, this ghost writer, repackaging and massaging. Um, oh, I always catch myself when I use the verb massage now. I shouldn't use that. Repackaging the initial memoir manuscript and basically updating it for 2025 and Nowhere do they nowhere do they dis do they disclose that it's based on a fictionalized manuscript. So it's just a
[00:54:00] fraud that was >> So they ultimately did publish a version of the manuscript. >> Yes. Last year. >> And did that book include the accusations against Dersitz and Bill Clinton or had that been removed by that point? >> To clarify those allegations of sexual improprieties against Dersitz were not in the 2011 manuscript. Those were concocted later as a basis for Virginia Roberts Guay to join this ongoing litigation that her lawyer Bradley
[00:54:26] Edwards had initiated around something called the Crime Victim's Rights Act and how the nonprosecution agreement from 2007208 had supposedly violated the non the Crime Victim's Rights Act. It's a it's a complicated issue. Um but that was debut those those claims against Durich were debuted in December of 2014. Um, but there are a bunch of other claims already in the manuscript from 2011 and there's a reference to
[00:54:50] Dersowitz, but it's just not a an accusation of sexual uh misconduct. >> Okay. The the three women that you mentioned um Grey Ransom Farmer, did they have the same lawyers or different lawyers? Were lawyers working together? >> Uh, pretty much the same lawyers. I mean, it's basically the same cabal of lawyers. It's uh Davis and then Bradley Edwards firm. Bradley Edwards was the initial lawyer that that oversaw primarily the Florida the the
[00:55:17] the purported victims from the Palm Beach phase from like 200 2 to 2005. um he started representing them around 2008. And then boys came a little bit later around the more kind of grandiose litigation, but they were working they've worked in conjunction with one another and still are. They're still suing as a in a class action lawsuit that they initiated last October, Bank of America to extract a couple hundred more million dollars just
[00:55:43] like they did from JP Morgan and Deutsch Bank and the Epstein estate and plenty of individualized lawsuits that they've alluded to but never um clarified the parameters of like they brag Bradley Edwards does that they got like 20 or 25 settlements that are still secret. he says from specific individuals whom he acknowledges may not have committed any wrongdoing at all, but just simply don't want to suffer the PR backlash that
[00:56:09] we're seeing now on steroids. So, it's a hugely lucrative industry. And I don't know, you tell me, David, is this like dimension of this whole story ever mentioned anywhere in any of the popular media coverage, whether it's on podcasts or on CNN or anywhere? >> No. Um, okay. So, and even the Deutschbang settlement, I don't think I'd heard of that. What What was that? So when Epstein dies August 10th, 2019, right,
[00:56:35] the aing frenzy breaks out in terms of litigation that is brought against his estate cuz at that point Epstein is obviously no longer available to contest any claims that are made against him and liel laws ceased to apply. People are aware obviously that he was very wealthy. He wasn't like a multi multi-billionaire as a lot of people suspected at the time, but according to his um disclosure of assets when he was
[00:57:00] arrested, his net worth was like six uh 650 million. So still a pretty big estate. And so because of this flood of lawsuits against the estate, the executives of the estate, Darren Indk and Richard Khan, decide to agree to coordinate with the victim's lawyers, Bradley Edwards, David Boy, at all to set up a basically a mediation program that they call the embassy and victims compensation fund, which is a holistic
[00:57:31] settlement process that victims or alleged victims could submit claims to and then there would be a mediator brought in to evaluate the claims and decide what amount of money to give out. So there wouldn't have to just be like a flood of individual lawsuits. They could kind of consolidate it. And so they set up a settlement model basically for the Epstein estate which was expressly non-adversarial, meaning there would be
[00:57:55] no adversarial scrutinization of the claims that were made to justify somebody's entitlement to millions of dollars. people as uh uh claimants were entitled to as much as $5 billion from just this one settlement fund and it was taxree by the way. >> Wait, this is with this is with Deutsch Bank. >> No, no, this is the epsian estate. I'm getting to Deutsch Bank because it ties into the Epstein estate from the Epstein
[00:58:20] estate. This Epstein estate was first in the chronology of settlements >> and so they set up a settlement model, right? It's a non-adversarial, confidential, tax-free because they claim that it applies under that it could be categorized under the IRS code as like compensation for an injury. So therefore, you don't have to pay income taxes on it. Um, and so that gets set up, right? And then >> and who adjudicates that?
[00:58:44] The court in the US Virgin Islands because the estate was doiciled in the US Virgin Islands appointed on the recommendation of both parties a an independent mediator or administrator Simona Lelchuk her name is who specialized she claimed anyway in this sort of thing and like she had an extra sensitivity toward sexual assault victim she claimed um I mean it's kind of a phony we don't want to get you know sucked into that nec necessarily tangent
[00:59:14] but um yeah so there's an independent administrator and that was modeled they said on >> previous consolidated settlement mechanisms such as like the Jerry Sanduski >> um I don't know if you recall the Jerry Sanduski sand scandal at Penn State where claims were made that this football coach had abused a bunch of boys and so a consolidated settlement program was set up to pay out settlements to claimments. >> Okay, got it. So that's the Epstein
[00:59:37] estate. So let's get to the >> So then they they they take that model that had been set up for the Epstein estate and then they start going after bank major multinational banking institutions that David Boy and Bradley Edwards decide to very creatively and cleverly I have to say allege were complicit in Jeffrey Epstein's like world spanning child sex trafficking operation and therefore reliable. >> Wait, what is the nexus between Deutsch