[00:40:00] This is a big jump though because the FBI raid on Mara Lago was because Trump wouldn't give back these uh specific documents that what were the documents they were looking for, right? What were the documents they were looking for? that he was obstructing justice and that they were, you know, video cameras, etc. And that case didn't didn't get past a a motion to dismiss. Right. You're making the jump from that that they were looking for
[00:40:24] something related to the steel dossier and Trump could have just given those document backs. I always wondered in that one, why he just didn't give the documents back? Like why was he so steadfast? He could declassify anything as president, which was the likely scenario, but they but they did it anyway. I mean, I think but why would he just get I mean, if you were advising him, wouldn't you just tell him like, "Hey, just give the
[00:40:41] documents back." Like, I think he was in touch with the archavist. Um, and and that was an ongoing conversation. And then Jack Smith with the federal prosecutor down in in Florida moved with guns to seize these documents, right? I mean, it's very unusual. I just don't I mean, I just never understood why he just didn't give the documents back. It would just I mean I know Trump does unique things in the world and but I would have just
[00:41:05] given the documents back which is what every other president did when they were asked to give documents back. Sure. But except remember Joe Biden who wasn't ever president. He was vice president who can't declassify documents. Had boxes and boxes of classified documents in his garage where Hunter Biden lived. So like what you're down to now Jal, you started believing that Trump was a Russian asset. He's a Russian spy based Yeah, you did. You were tweeting it at the time. I I thought you should No, no, I didn't.
[00:41:33] I if I I always thought that was like a crazy concept. Deleted those tweets, but you did. No, no. It's okay. You were fooled by the media. It's okay. A lot of people were fooled. I said this very clear on the pod. I always believe the Russians wanted to create chaos like we're experiencing here in this discussion amongst Americans to distract us and that they would do it even-handedly with anybody. They would do it. people who are creating the chaos were actually the
[00:41:57] people who perpetrated this coup attempt against the president. The people who perpetrated the Hamilton 68 dashboard fraud. Those are the people who perpetrated the chaos. Sure. I I I think if the Russians were evidence you don't have specific evidence. You don't have specific evidence of a Russian hack. Go read Matt Taby's reporting. I just gave this I just gave it to you. The the RNC the head of the RNC said,
[00:42:19] "Yes, we were hacked. Our our our uh partners were hacked." They they they explicitly said this. This is all facts, David. But anyway, we got we got the senator here. We we can have our a Russian gay debate forever. You could tell me that I think Trump's a Russian asset. I don't think Trump's a Russian asset. I think that's insane. But I do think the Russians like to cause chaos. Moving on. Brennan, I believe it was Brennan and these Tulsi documents that just got
[00:42:41] released. Here's what I think is so notable about them. I mean, other people may have their own opinion is that it shows that I think there's there's a document there where Brennan Brennan was like the head of the CIA, correct? He received an intelligence assessment from the organization in which they said, "Look, there's nothing to this. It's bogus. We haven't the steel dossier." You're saying, not just a stealier, but the whole idea that of somehow that the Russians had run this elaborate interference
[00:43:10] operation in the 2016 election and that somehow Trump was compromised. In other words, the intelligence analysts did their job and came up with the correct conclusion. And nonetheless, Brennan said that the steel dossier should be included in the official intelligence assessment because it had the quote ring of truth to it. Okay. So, he was advised by his own analysts that this was nonsense and yet he pushed to
[00:43:37] include it in the official intelligence report and then that became the basis for opening the investigation. You see how this worked allegedly? and we'll find out. He'll have their day in court. I mean, I'm totally This is what's in the documents. Well, I mean, we'll find out if this is a um a theatrical exercise or if it's actually going to go to court. What do you think? I I think it'll go to court. I think this is um and and by the way, I think it's one of the reasons why they were so obsessed in
[00:44:06] making sure President Trump never got back into office. One of the reasons. I mean again in the book I talk about how there's just a an emergency real or perceived then you other people and then you try to silence dcent. I think it happened with co um it happened with this r anybody that that claimed that Russia didn't have um you know that that President Trump wasn't a Russian asset was a traitor and a Putin lover. I mean
[00:44:30] this stuff it's kind of wild honestly but I I think we're on the other side of the fever dream. Uh and but there does need to be some accountability now. This is your first term as senator I believe. Yes. Yes. I was elected in 2022. Yep. I'm curious. One, any great stock tips? Uh, two, you have to call. Are we done with the Russia gate now? Is that Russia gate now? We're just trying to get some inside information on number
[00:44:54] two. Look, I think one of the reasons why the Russia, we can stop talking about Russia gate, but I think one of the reasons why it was so important, first of all, it was effectively a coup against the president of the United States because these were executive branch officials who owe a duty of loyalty to the elected president. Instead, they were working to subvert and undermine him based on essentially lies and and hoaxes and manufactured
[00:45:18] material. I mean, that is that is basically the definition of a of a coup. So, I think that is a big deal in and of itself. But I think the other reason why it's such a big deal is I do think that it helped create this intense Russophobia in the United States that has led us to the point we're at right now, which is we are basically in a war with Russia, or at least we're backing Ukraine in a war with Russia. And actually, you heard this at the Alaska
[00:45:42] summit. I think that this whole Russia gate thing, which we now know is completely bogus, poisoned relations between the United States and Russia for years because the media kept reporting this bogus idea that somehow Trump was a Russian asset and somehow they had interfered in our elections. And I think this helped create a a very hostile relationship between the United States and Russia. Clearly, Russia gate led to the Putin.
[00:46:09] Well, it led it led to it led to a sour crossing the border and led it led to a souring of the relationship. It led to a souring of the relationship and it led doesn't justify his murderous campaign in Ukraine. David, you would agree. I'm not that's not the argument I'm making. I know, but I'm forcing you to agree that he invaded Ukraine and murdered people and he's a war criminal. And you know that those are just facts as well,
[00:46:32] David. I'm sorry. I think those are cliches that that basically attempt to strip that complicated war of all of its context so that we can achieve a peaceful solution to it. Obviously, you got obviously Putin obviously Putin invaded the country, but the conflict there goes back 10 years. There's a long history to it. Yeah, I'm not looking to rehash all of that. The point is we could have worked out a resolution to this conflict maybe before it started if we didn't have hostile relations with Russia. And that's the
[00:46:59] point I'm trying to make. Senator, I'll give you uh the choice. I want to talk to you about just the Senate in general and um and then I wanted to talk a little and your experiences there or we could just go right into what's happening with this uh Russian peace deal and the status. We can do both. I I um I think I was actually I was on a Sunday show yesterday and and No text I I consider myself firmly in the camp of u being an American realist. Uh I I
[00:47:25] think that a lot of the people that are really critical of President Trump's efforts right now have been wrong about foreign policy for a very very long time. Jake Sullivan included, right? Who presided over the with the disastrous withdrawal of Afghanistan who um by basically on his watch Russia invaded. What is their position, Senator? What do you think their position is? Like why are they so tweaked that he met with Putin, do you think?
[00:47:47] I don't know. Uh because there is no plan. There's never been a plan. The only plan they ever had was is that the United States taxpayer would continue to funnel over $200 billion without a plan. And I had a problem with that in my first couple years. The Vice President Vance viewed the world kind of similarly with that in the same way. I think we ought to focus on our core national interest, the homeland. We have to figure out a way to pivot to China. We have to get our NATO allies to step up
[00:48:11] in a much more meaningful way. I think one of the great ironies of all this is that, you know, the these European countries who are going to be in the White House in the Oval Office today They talk about Putin being this existential threat. Well, they sure don't act like it. They don't, you know, they don't spend like it. You mean correct? And it, by the way, if they spent what we spent on national defense, that would free up about $300 billion for us to focus actually on the Indo
[00:48:34] Pacific, where China now has a bigger navy than we have. Not a better navy, but a bigger navy. There is space for it. Trump's biggest accomplishment is probably geopolitically getting NATO uh to spend what they're supposed to spend. Yeah. Yeah. I went over to uh I was actually at the uh the um the Munich Security Conference. I went over there. I'm a bit of a contrarian there. I guess I would say the ascending wing of the Republican party on this kind of realism versus um
[00:49:01] this kind of Wilsonian adventurism that's dominated permanent Washington for a long time just to tell them the truth, which is not what they wanted to hear, but the truth, which is the things I just said. You need to step up in more meaningful way. Um you know, if you think about the Cold War, it was meant to sort of prop them up to defeat Soviet communism. Our trade deals were never renegotiated. We never expected much more from him and all that's happening now. So, this is kind of the place that I've been hoping to be. But I think
[00:49:26] President Trump's trying to broker a piece here. The problem with the critics is they just don't have an alternative. This is a meat grinder. This is a war of attrition. This is what Russia does. That's what they've done for centuries. So, if you're if your if your solution is that, well, we shouldn't we shouldn't talk to Putin. I don't know how you get to a peace deal. Diplomacy means you talk to some people that you would never want your daughter to marry, but like
[00:49:50] you accept the world as it is and try to move forward. And I think that's what he's trying to do. And David, I think the chances of successfully negotiating anything with a dictator who gets to do whatever he wants is like five or 10% on on a good day. Are you talking about Zillinsky? My lord, you have it in for the the emerging democracy that was invaded by Zalinsky is now in his what is it? Fifth or six year of a fouryear term. Hold on. No, this is this is just me saying it.
[00:50:17] I'm not anyone else. No, you're out of your lane. So Zalinsky basically banned opposition political parties. He basically cracked down on the press. You don't get you don't get to be a reporter in Ukraine unless you get a license from the government. He cracked down on uh religion, on the Russian Orthodox Church, priests, nuns, so forth. He's basically seized the assets of his political opponents. And most
[00:50:40] importantly, he's now in the like fifth year of a four-year term. He canceled elections. So, I'm not quite sure upon what exactly you're making these highly moralistic condemnations. I just think the conflict is much more complicated than you would like it to be. And you know this whole idea that Zillinsky represents democracy whereas Putin represents authoritarianism that's not what's going on. Just statistically you're wrong. If you
[00:51:06] were to look at any of the ratings of democracies in the world, Russia would be amongst the lowest scores and the Ukraine would be in the high middle scores compared to the truly free countries. Of course he canceled elections. But I'd have to you have to think twice about that since he can election. There is no democracy. There is no democracy in Ukraine right now. There's just not. Well, they're at war. Yeah. Okay, fine.
[00:51:29] Fighting for their lives. But we had we had elections when we were in, you know, the civil war and we were we were in World War II. We had elections. I don't know that that's a great reason. Senator, which is a more democratic country, Ukraine or Russia? Russia is an authoritarian regime, but I think David makes some like I'll give you one example. When we were going, you can't just answer the question. I mean, you're a senator. I mean, just
[00:51:50] you're using Jal, you're using democracy as a bumper sticker and a buzzword instead of actually thinking about what it really means. And actually, if we're really going to think about what democracy means, then let's ask what the people of Ukraine think. That's what to me democracy means. You actually listen to the people. Gallup just did a survey of the people of Ukraine. Let's put these numbers on on the screen. This is Gallup. This and this before the Alaska summits. This was not politically
[00:52:14] motivated in any way. And what they found is that Ukrainians have lost their appetite for war. Support for the war has collapsed. A year ago, the support for the war was in the 60s or 70s. Now it's collapsed to 24%. So the vast majority of Ukrainians now want a resolution to the conflict, even if it means making concessions. Yeah, I know. I I I wouldn't you can't dispute this. Of course, they're they've got war fatigue like they should. This is what democracy means to me is that we should actually listen to the
[00:52:44] desires of the Ukrainian people. Russia has five times the people, three times the or three times the people, five times the amunitions. Um they have an industrial base. Um this, you know, for for Ukraine, I think the next step here is um there has to be a negotiated piece here. This this can't go on forever. Europe is not in a position, I think, to provide what they claim to want to provide. in the United States of America. I mean, part of the problem is, and other people have made this point, that even if you spent, let's just say
[00:53:12] we wanted to spend another hundred billion dollars, the industrial base doesn't exist to build all of the stuff that they need right now anyway. Like, they have a there's a real problem here. And I think President Trump campaigned on the idea of negotiating a piece. I don't know why that's so controversial when um and I'm not saying from you, I'm saying but the pundits Yeah. It's like heav you know, the idea, you know, Russia has nuclear weapons. the
[00:53:36] idea that he wouldn't have a one-on-one conversation. Yeah, that's why I asked that question like, is there any still manning of this position that we shouldn't meet with Putin or, you know, President Xi or Kim Jong-un? We should obviously meet with all of them. It makes sense if we have even a 1% chance of making forward progress. When should the United States senator say, "Uh, enough is enough. We're out.
[00:54:02] Figure it out for yourselves." You've got the EU right there. You got Europe. They've got plenty of money, but America's out. If you want to buy some weapons, we sell weapons. That's fine. And I think Trump has done an amazing job of uh enforcing the loan lease that Biden set these up. So when we keep saying we're spending a hundred billion, that's no longer true, right? We're getting all that money back because
[00:54:21] Trump forced Zilinski to uh the negotiating table. We we're getting all that money back. But when should we just so we have clear facts here that it's not costing the American people you know this hundreds of billions of dollars anymore thanks to President Trump deaf negotiator I'll give him credit where credit is due but when should you we in your mind step back and say you know what not our problem anymore you guys figure it out because that seemed vice president JD Vance uh friend of the
[00:54:49] pod's position as well at some point we have to say enough and and Trump sort of said that too he alluded to that at some point we're Are we at that point if this doesn't get resolved this time around? Do you think? I think yeah, I think that um that's what this phase is all about, which is to give a legitimate peace process a chance. But the idea that that we're going to be voting on, I mean, I wouldn't support it. More aid, taxpayer aid to Ukraine for a war that, you know,