[00:00:00] No text I put on a jacket because, you know, we're interviewing a senator, but I see that uh it's polo day. Senator Schmidz pulled a Zillinsky here. I I did, but I told them I do have these stiff I have these stiff collar on the polo, which is You look great. It looks great. And you know, I lost the weight. Thanks for noticing, Senator. And um uh I've been hitting the weights unlike Sachs. And so I am too trying to get the gun show going like you have achieved there.
[00:00:27] All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. All right, everybody. Welcome back to a very special interview. Yeah, you know, we're doing these interviews here uh with me, my amazing co-host and your Zar
[00:00:54] of crypto and AI, the Rainman himself, David Saxs. David, how you doing, brother? How's your summer wrapping up? Good to be here. The summer ended way too soon. Way too soon. It's so sad, isn't it? It's just like not ready for it to be over. Kids going back to school, all that. And look, you're a civil servant now. You are working for the people and the people demand you're a public servant. Yes. And the people demand results. And
[00:01:20] hey, we have another civil servant here. David, why don't you introduce our guest today? This is Senator Eric Schmidt from the state of Missouri. How did we meet? It was it was through another former senator, now vice president, JD Vance, I believe. That's right. That's right. Yeah. And you guys entered the Senate together at the same time. We did. and uh got to be very close and uh shared a lot of um life experiences and uh in our freshman group got you
[00:01:44] know pretty tight. We go to dinner once a month and try to keep that going now that he's even VP, which is a lot of fun. But yeah, we got introduced through him and uh have enjoyed getting to know you. And you now have a new book called The Last Line of Defense, which is about your time in your previous job, which was as attorney general of the state of Missouri. And I remember talking about before I even knew you on the All-In Pod when we were dealing with censorship and
[00:02:08] talking about that issue, the Twitter files. This is back in I don't know, this is like 3 or four years ago, 2022, I would say. Yeah, few years ago now is moving. We talked about the case Biden v. Missouri, which you were the one who brought that case when you were attorney general. When I met you and then found that out, I knew that we had some views in common, let's say, about free speech and the need to avoid censorship and you went right at the show me don't tell me what your fancy speak what's
[00:02:33] going on. You went directly to discovery. So maybe you could talk a little bit about the approach uh from No text the senator from the show me state. There were rumors and kind of this feeling people were being censored, but nobody knew exactly how it was occurring. So, you had some intuition that if we do some discovery here, there's got to be something under the surface. Or had somebody leaked something to you? How did you know to go after this? I guess was my question.
[00:02:57] Yeah. And one of the reasons I wrote the book was just to, you know, I think it's it's easy. The book starts with um you know, in November 2024, the fever broke. And so if you think about the four previous years, you know, this was a time of lockdowns and compulsory COVID shots and forced masking of 5-year-olds, but also this vast censorship enterprise that existed that in my view was the greatest affront to the First Amendment
[00:03:21] we've ever seen in the history of our country. And so if you go back in time, right, to to in 2022, you had seen, to your point, Jason, you had seen um sort of Jen Saki at the podium talking about, hey, we're flagging this for Facebook. There were rumors of a disinformation governance board um with the Mary Poppins herself um right um talking about how this misinformation and disinformation I think right wasn't there that they needed to to flag this
[00:03:54] stuff and do something about it. We knew that if they were willing to talk about that stuff so publicly, there had to be something much more beneath the surface. So in May of 2022 when I was attorney general of Missouri, we sued the B administration and sort of this leviathan of agencies that were working to censor American speech. And we filed the lawsuit and we knew that it would be, you know, highly scrutinized um be called sort of furthering conspiracy
[00:04:20] theories, but we knew that there was something there. And a really important strategic decision in the case was normally when you file a lawsuit like that, you immediately seek a temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction to get the government or another party to stop what they're doing. But we felt like we needed to get evidence first, right? We had the allegations in the complaint. So we
[00:04:39] sought discovery and the judge granted that discovery and what we found from that discovery was shocking. Right? We got reams and reams, tens of thousands of documents, emails, text messages about this communication, the special portals that existed for, you know, these folks in big government to work with big tech to silence Americans. And so it really was shocking. And then, of course, we got to the point where we were able to take depositions. We took the deposition of Anthony Fouchy. He
[00:05:05] took the deposition of Elvis Chan who was the FBI agent uh in charge of Northern California that was pre-bunking the Hunter Biden laptop story even though the FBI had the laptop in 2019. Right. So we took the deposition of a CDC official who was basically flagging specific words and phrases that the government would then censor and then agencies like SISA. All of these groups were part of this enterprise and that's
[00:05:29] one of the reasons I wrote the book last line of defense that people can get on Amazon right now. it. You we go inside those deposition rooms. You go inside the prep for that. What we what were we trying to find out? What did we find out? How we uncovered this? Because you got to remember this was before Elon bought Twitter. Yeah. And before Yeah. Yeah. We those first couple days. Yeah. What's interesting about this is that you were taking the discovery from the government side. So you were getting the
[00:05:56] government documents, you were deposing government witnesses, and then Elon released the Twitter files, I don't know, about 6 months later. And then we saw it from the Twitter side. Yeah. And this was happening at Facebook too, No text right? Like you had information on the Facebook side. Yeah. Yeah. You had Meta, you had YouTube. We, you know, all the, this was all happening in and the way it was working was, as you guys know, um, these big
[00:06:18] tech platforms have something called two section 230 protection, right? Which is basically in the '9s when the internet's becoming a thing, Congress says you're not you're not a publisher, you're a platform, so you can't be sued. That is a huge advantage. And by the way, if they're actually acting as a platform, as a proponent of free speech, almost as a free speech absolutist, that's a great thing. The problem was a lot of these entities were then becoming publishers.
[00:06:43] They were throttling things they didn't like. They were taking down opinions they didn't support. That sort of thing. And so what you had was Joe Biden saying maybe there's criminal liability. you saw these text messages in the lawsuit from from Rob Flity who is the deputy communications director of the White House cussing these guys out saying you you need to know that from the highest levels of the White House we see this you're not doing enough and so as much
[00:07:05] as I think some of the the people at these big tech companies were willing participants there was a coercion that was happening and that's the basis of the lawsuit which was we all know the government can't censor speech but you also can't outsource that censorship to private companies which is exactly what was going down and I think exposing that was really important. Uh, of course Elon and all the work that he's done in making that a true free speech platform
[00:07:30] then and then of course the congressional hearings that followed. I think all of this has sort of laid the groundwork for this kind of free speech renaissance that we're experiencing. One of the things, you know, when I was in college, you know, in the late 90s, I was um I was always pretty conservative. One thing I was kind of jealous of of liberals was that they kind of had the high ground on free speech. they were viewed as sort of like the Vanguard and even the ACLU actually did things like
[00:07:55] protect free speech. That's all gone now. Like that there's no like it's about power and control and limiting and labeling things misinformation, disinformation to to suppress speech. So I think it's an interesting moment right now for this new coalition that came together to elect President Trump, which is for me exciting. It's kind of a working-class coalition. So just to steel man it senator we know that our foreign adversaries this is
[00:08:17] bipartisan for many decades interfere in our elections. We know they do that. You would agree? Yeah. This certainly would try to influence certainly try. Right. And of course we could be like hey is it possible in 50 different states with 50 different set of regulations. Pretty hard to actually tip an election. Um as we've seen, right? If you look at that if we steal man a foreign adversary because this is the cover that they were seeking. Hey,
[00:08:42] we're doing this to protect America and democracy. But the truth was, you know, they were doing it for their own personal reasons and their affiliation with one particular party. If you just look at the percentage of people who are Democrats at those companies, it's like 80, 90, 95%. So, I think we all agree on that. Is there a way for the FBI, for the CIA, for our government to say to Twitter, to Facebook, hey, you've got people here who are foreign adversaries. they're doing something uh that is
[00:09:12] against the American public. We need you to monitor this account and take them down. What would have been the proper channel as opposed to setting up a covert back channel where they kind of threatened them? One layer here that I've never heard anybody connect, but when I was listening to your Tucker interview, it it just dawned on me. They also put Lena Khan in. Now, Zuckerberg is a cutthroat business executive. He likes to buy companies. That's his thing. And Twitter was known for buying
[00:09:38] a lot of companies. So now you got Lena Khan saying, "We're going to we're going to come down hard on you, not let you buy anything." And at the same time, this other group from the Biden administration is saying, "Hey, take this stuff down." So they had two really big clubs to to to threaten these folks. But what would be the proper channels to say, "Hey, these things are stolen." Right. Yeah. There's there's a difference between sort of making people aware um
[00:10:02] versus the coercion um that was happening under the threat of investigations or losing section 230 protections. Right. That was that was that was our argument which was this went beyond informing and this was about colluding and and coercing which of course then crosses the line of what the government can do you know as far as violating the first amendment. There's also to your point there's a couple of things that are happening at the same time here. The first is kind of this
[00:10:28] honestly is kind of legacy of the whole Russia gate hoax stuff in that they concocted this um this theme um that is playing out now like Tulsi Gabra is exposing a lot of stuff but that gave them the in their view that gave them the guys to talk about Russia this Russia that everything that they don't like is misinformation disinformation right the other thing that was happening with Zuckerberg in particular you know you got to remember if you go back to 2016, a lot of people blamed him. If he
[00:10:58] didn't like Trump, they blamed him because they thought that somehow um what was happening on Facebook contributed to his election and it shouldn't have happened. But then, of course, he he then is part of the whole Zuckerbucks movement in the leadup to to 2020. Then he comes back around and Biden's in office and he's pressured um and then he kind of, you know, on the rogue on Joe Rogan kind of talks about the the the lengths at which they went
[00:11:22] to pressure him. And now it it seems as though maybe he's been red pilledled again. I don't really know where that's at. No, no, I can tell you he's a weather vein. That's just how you know which way the wind's blowing. Zuckerberg. So yeah, like it's out of behind is just But it's interesting like him as sort of this kind of maybe that's the right word of kind of how this was vacasillating from from one place to the next. But the point is if Kamala won I'll give her
[00:11:45] he would have been all in for Kamala 100%. He would have been at the inauguration for her. He would have donated to her. Trust me, we know him. It's my opinion. But I I give him I give him a little more credit in the following sense is that Zuckerberg gave a speech a while back where he talked about how social networking was the fourth estate and you've got the media and then you got social networking and it's very disruptive and therefore people want to censor it and he basically supported that we should have
[00:12:10] freedom of speech for social networking like we do for the press because it's equally important and I think that is his actual view it's just that the question is you know how much stomach does he have for fighting the government when it's pressuring him and coercing him and some other part of the government is basically threatening to break up his company. Right. Yeah. Right. Like a fifth estate, right? And so I
[00:12:33] think that if he wasn't being pressured by the government at all and just left to his own devices, I think he'd be fairly pro- free speech, but I just think that he wasn't really willing to take up the banner and fight the way that Elon was, you know, and really anti- Elon in that respect. He's the anti- Elon. He cares about his stock price. He cares about money. This is my interpretation. And he's going to
[00:12:56] protect the franchise and the stock price. But that's what most business people would do. I mean, I think Elon was an outlier in terms of being willing to fight for principle. Which is why I think that going back to the central premise of Biden v. Missouri, when the government is jawboning these companies, instructing them to take down content or highly suggesting it and basically threatening that there'll be repercussions if they don't, most business people are going to give into that. Of course,
[00:13:19] and it is and it is de facto censorship. Well, and if you think about it too, I mean, there's just a couple of things if they didn't happen, all of this stuff would still be considered a conspiracy theory or we wouldn't know about it. Like, if we didn't, nobody else had filed. If we didn't file that lawsuit and seek discovery and if the richest guy on the planet doesn't choose to buy Twitter and expose all of that, people would still be claiming that this was some conspiracy theory, right? like we
[00:13:45] wouldn't if you just think the world would be a much different place right now. And so I think that's a big success. Well, I agree and just to take people back, you're exactly right that conservatives were called crazy and conspiracy theorists for believing that Twitter, you know, then Twitter was shadowbanning and throttling traffic. And I remember when Elon took over, you know, we had the Twitter transition and Jay Khal and I were there and um we were just helping out first couple of weeks
[00:14:13] and it was mostly just getting org charts and trying to rationalize the orc structure and Elon went in and started making cuts. But then I think I left around Thanksgiving and we were all kind of with our families and you know I think we went down to Mexico and Elon was still there working and I remember I got a text from him at like 2:00 in the morning like are you up? hang you up. Hang you up. You up going to be a banger? Yeah. I'm like, "Sure." Yeah. So anyway, he calls and basically what he told me
[00:14:43] was that all the conspiracy theories are true that we've now gone into the admin tools that the trust and safety team was using and they literally have checkboxes to throttle accounts based on exclude them from search and they had all these different tools that they had created again to throttle traffic which was effectively shadowbanning. So they could just ban you outright or they could prevent your content from being seen. In other words, everything that
[00:15:08] conservatives had claimed was true. And to just to to add to that, Senator, before you respond, the thing that's particularly interesting about this is you talked about 230. We want platforms to have 230, but when you start making editorial decisions, when you're the New York Times and you say, "Hey, this is going on the front page." It's an editorial decision. When you assign the story, that's an editorial decision. The 230 was given to platforms that didn't make editorial decisions. This is an