[00:12:56] protect the franchise and the stock price. But that's what most business people would do. I mean, I think Elon was an outlier in terms of being willing to fight for principle. Which is why I think that going back to the central premise of Biden v. Missouri, when the government is jawboning these companies, instructing them to take down content or highly suggesting it and basically threatening that there'll be repercussions if they don't, most business people are going to give into that. Of course,
[00:13:19] and it is and it is de facto censorship. Well, and if you think about it too, I mean, there's just a couple of things if they didn't happen, all of this stuff would still be considered a conspiracy theory or we wouldn't know about it. Like, if we didn't, nobody else had filed. If we didn't file that lawsuit and seek discovery and if the richest guy on the planet doesn't choose to buy Twitter and expose all of that, people would still be claiming that this was some conspiracy theory, right? like we
[00:13:45] wouldn't if you just think the world would be a much different place right now. And so I think that's a big success. Well, I agree and just to take people back, you're exactly right that conservatives were called crazy and conspiracy theorists for believing that Twitter, you know, then Twitter was shadowbanning and throttling traffic. And I remember when Elon took over, you know, we had the Twitter transition and Jay Khal and I were there and um we were just helping out first couple of weeks
[00:14:13] and it was mostly just getting org charts and trying to rationalize the orc structure and Elon went in and started making cuts. But then I think I left around Thanksgiving and we were all kind of with our families and you know I think we went down to Mexico and Elon was still there working and I remember I got a text from him at like 2:00 in the morning like are you up? hang you up. Hang you up. You up going to be a banger? Yeah. I'm like, "Sure." Yeah. So anyway, he calls and basically what he told me
[00:14:43] was that all the conspiracy theories are true that we've now gone into the admin tools that the trust and safety team was using and they literally have checkboxes to throttle accounts based on exclude them from search and they had all these different tools that they had created again to throttle traffic which was effectively shadowbanning. So they could just ban you outright or they could prevent your content from being seen. In other words, everything that
[00:15:08] conservatives had claimed was true. And to just to to add to that, Senator, before you respond, the thing that's particularly interesting about this is you talked about 230. We want platforms to have 230, but when you start making editorial decisions, when you're the New York Times and you say, "Hey, this is going on the front page." It's an editorial decision. When you assign the story, that's an editorial decision. The 230 was given to platforms that didn't make editorial decisions. This is an
[00:15:32] editorial decision to say Milo Yiannopoulos or Laura Loomer or Alex Jones, whatever the reason is. They could be anti-semitic. They could be crazy. They could, you know, or the president of the United States, which was We'll get into that one for sure because there's a lot of good questions there. This is one of the things that Elon had done that very day was he opened up the Twitter jails and let Trump back onto the platform and there were some others. Jordan Peterson was It was a little bit
[00:15:59] like Arkham's Asylum. You did let a couple of crazy people back on too. No, all the bad boys of free speech were let out. I mean, it was Trump, Tate, Jordan Peterson, um Jaria, folks like Peterson. The public doesn't need to be protected from any of these people. I mean, Milo Yiannopoulos and Alex Jones, you may find them losome or funny or anything in between, but it is freedom of speech. But Senator, this has
[00:16:22] led to a discussion of 230 being repealed. And this is where I think, you know, the lawsuit you did and there could be further work is clarifying the nuance of 230. Should an algorithm de facto be an editorial decision? So if you have an algorithm and you say, "Hey, I'm going to show you more MAGA stuff. I'm going to show you more AOC." That's an editorial decision in my mind. Should that break section 230 if somebody
[00:16:52] decides to build an algorithm that shapes the content you see when you open the app just like the New York Times editors do? Right. That's sort of like in in the last line defense book is sort of like what are the solutions are? We talk about what's the proper role of section 230 because I actually think if you are a true platform as somebody again that believes in free speech it's a very important thing. One of the concerns like I'm I'm not a doomsday guy on on AI. I think there's um think it can add
[00:17:16] to human flourishing. I think it can actually make us more productive and there's a lot of there's a lot of opportunities that roll with it. One of the things I'm most concerned though is about censorship creeping in to AI, right? And so I think you have to be very clear that if you're going to start making these edit, whether it's a, you know, somebody individually is flagging it or you have an algorithm that is essentially excluding 50% of the points
[00:17:39] of view, you should not get the multi-billion dollar subsidy. That effectively what section 230 protection is, right? It's a huge advantage and it should and by the way I'm all for that but I think this manipulation that by the way is sort of sewn into the heart though the algorithm because you know what an algorithm is you're like a techsavvy guy and it's great to have senators who are but you can't but but like just like government how can you have an algorithm that's
[00:18:03] designed to produce a certain output how can you have that coexist with 230 is my question I have my own answers but I'm curious in in your answer yeah I think I think you got to get back to one of the first amendment principles which is it has to be contentneutral that's how I view it. Now, you can have protections you, you know, you there are certain public safety protections that are going to be in play. You could have protections against people, you know, sort of pedophilia that that you know
[00:18:26] would violate terms of service. Something there is a role violate laws, right? I mean, correct. Yeah. And but I also think what's interesting is when you go back and look at this case, the pressure on the platforms wasn't just about phrases. They made them alter terms of service to actually meet what the desired outcomes that they wanted. And and also at and and David, you guys were you saw this. Interestingly, the kind of how deep the
[00:18:44] No text rot really was. Let's just take Twitter for an example. James Baker, who's James Baker? James Baker was the general counsel for the FBI during the Hunter Biden, I'm sorry, the briefings during the Russia gate back then um at the end of 2016. He then after a stent at um some think tank becomes the general counsel at Twitter. He was the one inside Twitter. we now know from the Twitter files was advocating to censor the Hunter Biden laptop story even though he should have
[00:19:19] known based on his time at the FBI that the laptop was authentic, i.e. it was Hunter Biden's actual laptop and the grounds upon which that story was censored was that the laptop was Russian disinformation. This was the triedand-true tactic for years is that any speech that was inconvenient and that Democrats wanted to censor, they just called Russian disinformation even though the Russians had nothing to do
[00:19:47] with that laptop. And and to dig even further into that, what's interesting is so Elvis Chan is the guy at the FBI in um in in late 2000 2019 2020 is briefing the big tech companies um monthly, at least monthly, then it becomes weekly. And we took his deposition in the Missouri versus Biden lawsuit and it was kind of shocking. You can read about in the book, but like what he what he talked about was they had the they had the Hunter Biden laptop in in November
[00:20:16] of 2019. The FBI did. They knew it was real. Like they knew it was real. It's Hunter Biden's laptop. Yel Roth, as you remember, who was like the integrity guy at Twitter, signs an affidavit with the FEC after complaint was filed against Twitter, noting specifically that the FBI was telling them that this could be a Hunter Biden. So, this wasn't just going to be some random hack and leak operation from the Russians. It was related specifically to Hunter Biden.
[00:20:41] Senator, in fairness, the Russians did hack Hillary Clinton's email. That was confirmed. And we don't know that. We of course we do. The FBI confirmed it. Absolutely was confirmed. That's I think that's all part of the hoax. Uh okay. Well, let me give you a couple of reasons why I could see the New York Post uh I'm sorry. We could see the platform saying if the FBI calls and says it's a Russian hack and we've had a bunch of Russian hacks before and the
[00:21:08] president said you should uh hey Russia if you're listening send me the emails and you had Paul Maniffort be indicted believes in this Russia gate hoax which is the laptop was authentic and David let me finish mine. Let me finish mine and you can give me the key point and tell me why I'm wrong. There was a bunch of noise around Russia. I think Russia did this on purpose to cause chaos here. I don't think they cared who got in. I think they just want chaos. That's my personal belief. But if you
[00:21:36] were Twitter and the FBI calls and says, "Hey, this was hacked and we have these previous instances of hacking that the FBI has confirmed and has told the world this is what happened." And you have Paul Manifford being indicted and you have all this other noise. It's a reasonable thing for Facebook or Twitter in my mind to say, "Okay, maybe we wait a week. Maybe this is like the the Russians really are doing this." I don't blame them as much. Do you?
[00:22:00] Well, the truth is like there's parallel tracks here. First of all, we know now um that the Russia that that Trump was some some Russian asset. That's totally fake. That's like it like we all agree on that. It did it didn't happen. But they use that of course then to spy on a presidential candidate. That's what Barack Obama did. And then you had of course Brennan and Clapper and Comey continue this and really tried to
[00:22:27] sidetrack a presidential administration. So I I think indictments are probably coming. That's a sort of a separate issue. The reality is because if because you know even though statute of limitation may have expired, a conspiracy if ongoing the statute of limitation has not expired. So we'll see where that all goes. But if you're making the point that the government shouldn't be having that much uh influence and coercing and threatening these big tech companies, I would agree with you that that's a violation of the First Amendment. My point is I just the
[00:22:57] the idea that the big big tech was so willingly going along with all this though, right, is a little scary. These are some of the biggest companies in the history of the world. And the idea that something that the FBI knew to be true wasn't out there for the American people to sort of weigh in on 10 days before an election is kind of Orwellian. But that's on the FBI, I think. Yeah. Not the FBI. I'm totally unclean hands here.
[00:23:20] There's no doubt about that. Okay. Yeah. Let me jump in here with a couple of points. So, okay, let let's just focus on this Hunter Biden story because I think there is a very plausible argument that the censorship of this story could have swung the results of the 2020 election. Okay? Because the Hunter Biden laptop showed a bunch of shady foreign business dealings between the Biden family and China and Ukraine and other countries. And if that
[00:23:47] had been properly examined by the media instead of being censored by social media 10 days before the election, who knows what the outcome would have been. So this was a major major deal. Now, why did that story get censored? We now know from the Twitter files, this is the reporting of Matt Taibbei who was given access to the Twitter files that like Eric is saying, the FBI knew in late 2019 that the laptop was real because
[00:24:12] they had it in their possession and therefore authenticated it. What was their reaction to it? In my view, they could have done three different things. Number one is they could have investigated the crimes that were suggested by the evidence on that laptop. They didn't do that. Number two is they could have just sat on it and done nothing. They didn't do that. They did number three, which is they basically began a campaign to suppress the contents of the laptop. How did they do that? Elvis Chan representing the FBI
[00:24:37] was engaged in weekly meetings with these social networks. Again, this is from the Twitter files. and Elvis Chan represented the intelligence community. One of the the emails described his group as the belly button of the conduit between the social networks and the intelligence community. And remember, Elvis Chan had something like 80 FBI agents who are submitting takedown requests to Twitter and other social networks. So, this is the scale of the
[00:25:04] censorship that was happening. In any event, in these weekly IC meetings, and a lot of the evidence has been destroyed because they were using that disappearing tool, teleport. In any event, in these weekly meetings, we now know that they were warning the social networks, be on the lookout for a Russian disinformation campaign in which Hunter Biden is accused of something. And so they for months were priming the social networks to view any story, any
[00:25:34] revelations about Hunter Biden as being Russian disinformation. Now, why were they doing that? In fact, there was at one point there was what was called a quote unquote tabletop exercise where all the heads of trust and safety at these social networks were brought I think they were brought to the Aspen Institute and they literally ran a tabletop exercise where they said okay two weeks before the election the
[00:25:57] Russians are going to do an oppo dump on Hunter Biden. What's your response to that going to be? And where they all ended up is that they would censor the story. I mean this is like crazy Orwellian stuff. I mean, it makes sense for just to steal man it for them to want to do the right thing if the FBI is telling them it's Russian disinformation. Oh, I don't blame the social networks. They That's what I'm trying That's the only
[00:26:19] point I'm trying to make. And Zuckerberg went on. Remember when Zuckerberg went on Rogan and he said the reason why we censor that story is because the FBI had told us to. Most people in that situation would have believed the FBI. All three of us would. The point is though that the FBI again, they could have investigated the crimes on the laptop. They could have sat on the laptop and done nothing. That's not what they did. Instead, they began this campaign to discredit the eventual
[00:26:45] revelations information. Senator, what happened to those individuals at the FBI? I'm curious if you can get to that as well. Who were involved in all this? Were they ever brought up on charges? No. Do we ever figure out who they are? there there needs to be accountability here because I also think it's important to point out that so take SISA which is the cyber security infrastructure security agency no one's ever heard of it uh it was created effectively to
[00:27:09] protect infrastructure from cyber attacks in that era when Trump was president underground they work on under the guise of Russian disinformation the what's called the election integrity uh project so they work with Stanford they work with University of Washington to flag post to work with social media companies then when you get into co they just flip the switch and turn it on any, you know, if you're questioning the efficacy of the vaccine or you're questioning the efficacy of masks, they
[00:27:34] turn that around in the American people, too. So, part of the point that's outlined in the book, Last Line of Defense, which you can order right now on Amazon. Um, the part of the point was exposing all this was this was a Leviathan. This wasn't just like one person making a phone call. This was all these agencies that were lined up with the regime's narrative and then working and coercing and threatening social media companies. You will take this down or there will be consequences. And so,
[00:28:00] um, you know, the CDC, I mentioned the CDC. What were they doing? The government went to him and said, tell us the phrases that you want us to flag and take down and and then we will work with social media companies effectively, right, to go do that. And so, the FBI was involved in this. SISA was involved with this. the CDC was involved with this. And then of course when we had the opportunity to take Anthony Fouch's
[00:28:23] deposition at NIH, uh that was mind-blowing. Uh it's only the second time his deposition was taken and we find out all the links at which he went to to undermine people like by the way Dr. Jay Badacharia who was a plaintiff in Missouri versus Biden with me um to undermine his efforts to say things like well natural immunity is kind of a thing still. I mean, they tried to take down this guy's career and anybody like that who would just sort of question anything