[00:26:19] point I'm trying to make. And Zuckerberg went on. Remember when Zuckerberg went on Rogan and he said the reason why we censor that story is because the FBI had told us to. Most people in that situation would have believed the FBI. All three of us would. The point is though that the FBI again, they could have investigated the crimes on the laptop. They could have sat on the laptop and done nothing. That's not what they did. Instead, they began this campaign to discredit the eventual
[00:26:45] revelations information. Senator, what happened to those individuals at the FBI? I'm curious if you can get to that as well. Who were involved in all this? Were they ever brought up on charges? No. Do we ever figure out who they are? there there needs to be accountability here because I also think it's important to point out that so take SISA which is the cyber security infrastructure security agency no one's ever heard of it uh it was created effectively to
[00:27:09] protect infrastructure from cyber attacks in that era when Trump was president underground they work on under the guise of Russian disinformation the what's called the election integrity uh project so they work with Stanford they work with University of Washington to flag post to work with social media companies then when you get into co they just flip the switch and turn it on any, you know, if you're questioning the efficacy of the vaccine or you're questioning the efficacy of masks, they
[00:27:34] turn that around in the American people, too. So, part of the point that's outlined in the book, Last Line of Defense, which you can order right now on Amazon. Um, the part of the point was exposing all this was this was a Leviathan. This wasn't just like one person making a phone call. This was all these agencies that were lined up with the regime's narrative and then working and coercing and threatening social media companies. You will take this down or there will be consequences. And so,
[00:28:00] um, you know, the CDC, I mentioned the CDC. What were they doing? The government went to him and said, tell us the phrases that you want us to flag and take down and and then we will work with social media companies effectively, right, to go do that. And so, the FBI was involved in this. SISA was involved with this. the CDC was involved with this. And then of course when we had the opportunity to take Anthony Fouch's
[00:28:23] deposition at NIH, uh that was mind-blowing. Uh it's only the second time his deposition was taken and we find out all the links at which he went to to undermine people like by the way Dr. Jay Badacharia who was a plaintiff in Missouri versus Biden with me um to undermine his efforts to say things like well natural immunity is kind of a thing still. I mean, they tried to take down this guy's career and anybody like that who would just sort of question anything
[00:28:48] other than what Anthony Fouchy said. So, it it really was a time that was wild and crazy and we can't ever let happen again. That's the sort of the point and and for me as you guys I I know believe this as a long as a I I told Jason first time long time on the show now the be the first amendment really is the beating heart of the Constitution. One of the great tests of this American experiment is our ability to tolerate people's point of view or their
[00:29:14] expression of a point of view that we vehemently disagree with even if we think it's dangerous. Like that's really a big part of what this whole thing is about. And what you saw during CO in particular was people who who had who never should had this power were exercising in ways that you would have thought was from another country. You know what I mean? Like this couldn't happen here, but it was happening here. I I don't know if you remember the foil
[00:29:38] lady, literally the person who was supposed to be policing uh and making sure that things were on the up and up uh at the CDC was teaching them allegedly how to use hacker speak or their personal email addresses to subvert freedom of information, right, requests. I mean, I'll put allegedly in front of it, but I think this was all, you know, uh discoverable and they and it was in the email. She just taught people how to lie and how to subvert foyer requests. So when you start saying
[00:30:10] Orwellian, it does feel like this absolute power has that ability to absolute. You know, Eric mentioned the NOS's that are part of this Leviathan. I think that is a really important part of it because I think that one of the ways that the No text Biden administration was able to kind of create cover for the censorship they wanted is to kind of launder those censorship requests through some of these NOS's in addition to using the FBI
[00:30:33] and the IC and their connections to trust and safety. One NGO in particular I want to talk about or ask about is Hamilton 68. Did you did you look at this at all, Eric, or remind me which one Hamilton 68 is? The reason I wanted to talk about this one is this idea of Russian disinformation because Hamilton 68 was another one of these groups. This is all exposed in Matt Tybee's reporting where it was set up by another former FBI official named
[00:30:57] Clint Watts. you know, these former FBI guys are are kind of all over. And they claimed that they were tracking 600 or so Russian disinformation accounts or bots. And they claimed to know which accounts these were. And they would put out stories that whenever there was a story that Democrats didn't like, they would accuse the Russians of being behind it, amplifying that story. And this was the the source for thousands of MSNBC stories, thousands of CNN reports and so on claiming that the Russians
[00:31:32] were involved in our politics. They were engaging in disinformation. Well, why why is this relevant? Well, during the Twitter files, we found out there was um Yoyel Roth, who you mentioned was the head of trust and safety and definitely not a conservative. There was correspondence inside of Twitter saying, "Hey, we looked at their so-called API and these are just regular accounts." And he said, "Basically, this is all bullshit." I mean, I think he used that
[00:31:54] word In other words, the whole idea they were tracking Russian accounts was just total nonsense. These were, you know, it was just a random smattering of some were conservative accounts, some were Canadian accounts. They were just random accounts. And so anytime they needed to oppose conservative opinion on an issue, they would just supposedly point to this Hamilton 68 dashboard. Hamilton 68 created this dashboard that supposedly showed, you know, this um
[00:32:19] vast Russian influence campaign. It all ended up being nonsense. Well, and I think it totally came out of thin air. I think the Russian there's a long track record of the Russians hacking, including the RNC recently. So, you know, I I I do think you are painting a very one-sided picture here, Saxs. Maybe it's all You think the Russians are not hacking foreign adversaries at all? You don't believe any of it? Russia's got a lot of good hackers in it, and I'm sure they have cyber
[00:32:45] operations and things like that, but again, that's a little different than saying that the Russians are heavily involved in our elections. I believe that that was largely a madeup story. Now, look, do I want to say that no Russian ever was involved in some sort of operation? I'm not going to say that. But we know Hamilton 68 was total nonsense. In fact, it was worse than that. It was a hoax. Okay? It was a hoax. And for years, it was the basis
[00:33:08] for thousands of stories that the Russians were interfering in our politics. We also know that the Steel Dossier was a hoax. And that was the whole basis once laundered through the FBI and that whole investigation that somehow the Russians had interfered in the 2016 election. So when you start to peel away all these bogus accusations, Jason, yeah, I don't really believe any of this stuff. When I hear the words Russian disinformation, what I hear now is red scare.
[00:33:33] Senator, I'm going to have you uh Senator, I'm gonna have you chime in here and and maybe balance out our two opinions. Obviously, the Russians have been hacking political organizations in the United States and other countries for decades. They did it to the RNC. They did it to Hillary. They do it as a tactic. That is a fact. And also, I don't think anybody thinks like uh Trump is a manurian candidate. So, you tell me where reality is between the
[00:33:58] Chinese do it too. There's no question. Yeah, Chinese are big, of course. But I think what what separates this though was that now that we know what we know, I mean actually in the documents that were released by released by Telsey Gabber, the director of national intelligence, was that Hillary Clinton was the preferred candidate. They had the goods on her. They had her medical records, all this stuff. They So Trump was not like this preferred Putin. The Russians had all that hacked
[00:34:21] information. Yeah, they had that. And so what was done was Hillary Clinton knew that she had an email problem and then she works with a Joros George Soros funded um NGO, right? They come up with this plan to say, well Trump is is is cozy with Russia. The steel dossier finds this oppo whatever is fake oppo. Then they, as David said, they launder it through intelligence agents. Then that became the thing. And I think the
[00:34:45] problem is and why people have lost trust in a lot of these institutions in many cases rightfully so is because they were really weaponized against political opponents and they were weaponized against the American people. And there's going to be have to be a sort of a a lot of accountability I think before people gain that trust back. So I think that was my next question is how do we get past this because we're sitting here
[00:35:03] with like one group who feels hey there's all these really suspicious Russian connections to Trump and the people around him. Jason, can't you see that this was manufactured? It's manu. You have to start with some parts manufactured. Yes. And then some parts of it reals manufactured. It was a hoax. We get it. There there's there's Hamilton 68 and all the stories based on it. Manufactured hoax. How do we get to reality where we first got to peel back you got to peel
[00:35:29] back all the fakeness. Well, I think also you have to accept that the Russians are hackers and don't have our best interest and they actually want to come after us politically. David, this idea. I'm sure the Russians have cyber operations. that they hacked Hillary and you know he knows and this has all been confirmed. The problem here is that that was used um as a as a as a predicate. Again, this is why it's it's so jarring. It was used
[00:35:54] as a predicate to spy Barack Obama authorizes to spy on a presidential candidate and then as a predicate then to investigate a a president in waiting and then as a predicate to try to destroy his administration. and it was used and it and it gobbled up so much time in those first two years. That to me is is a pretty unique circumstance. And beyond just yeah, foreign nations are trying to get information.
[00:36:18] Since we're here, there's this lawsuit that is now happening um or this investigation, I guess, as a as an attorney and you were the AG. explain to the American people what the case is right now that they're going after, you know, um with uh this Russia gate allegations and then where is it in the courts? Give us the mechanics of it and where do you think it winds up? So the question is um was there was
[00:36:38] No text anything done um illegal uh during the sort of Russia gate hoax stuff that could be chargeable? I think you've got, ironically, um, uh, Barack Obama has presidential immunity because of the case that President Trump won at the Supreme Court, which by the way, my solicitor general at the time in Missouri was John Sauer. He's now the solicitor general of the United States. He was also Trump's lawyer who argued that presidential immunity case about a year ago. But so, um, he probably has
[00:37:12] immunity from official acts when he was in office, but not when he's out of office. So the the real question will be um you sort of uh a conspira I think the most likely charge you can make the case is a conspiracy against a conspiracy to defraud the United States. This is a a very elaborate scheme again to undermine people and and whether they get indictments or not I think they should pursue them and and we'll see if that happens. Um but I think the like the most likely targets of that are Comey,
[00:37:45] Clapper, and Brennan um for their role. And they're being accused of what exactly? Of manipulating this and manipulating these falsehoods into actionable intelligence again against the president of the United States, Donald Trump. What are they being charged with, I guess, is what I'm getting at. Or has that point? You can't be the head of the FBI or the head of the CIA and have information you know is false to then
[00:38:10] open up a criminal investigation against the president, which is what happened, right? And so that's a kind of a big thing. So, um, again, most people would say probably the statute of limitations has has run on on many of those charges. But again, an ongoing conspiracy is something different. And by the way, the conspiracy doesn't need to involve you from point A to point Z once you sort of begin the conspiracy. So like uh you know, again, it just go down this rabbit hole a little bit like what was Jack
[00:38:44] Smith looking for at Mara Lago um when he went down there? Like he's probably looking for some of the uh the information related to the steel dossier that they thought that he probably took with him. I don't know that for certain, but that's certainly a plausible explanation. So this and again you have to remember Jason that President Trump leaves office. He announces he's running for president in the fall of 2022.
[00:39:09] 3 days later a few things happen. Then the assistant district attorney in Atlanta in a state case visits the White House council's office. The number three person at DOJ leaves the Department of Justice and goes work for Alvin Bragg who then later brings a case against President Trump. Jack Smith is appointed a special counsel who's in prosecutor world, you know, he's this hired gun. He goes out and tries to put President Trump in jail for the rest of his life. They try to bankrupt his family. So like
[00:39:35] it it is very obvious to anyone paying attention that this lawfare that was aimed against Donald Trump was meant to make sure he never got back in office again. And by the way, if he never got back in office again, all the stuff that Tulsi Gabbard discovered and and laid out there that Cash Patel found in burn bags wouldn't be out in the open. So much like how we exposed the corruption in Missouri versus Biden, I think that's kind of where we're at right now with Russ.
[00:40:00] This is a big jump though because the FBI raid on Mara Lago was because Trump wouldn't give back these uh specific documents that what were the documents they were looking for, right? What were the documents they were looking for? that he was obstructing justice and that they were, you know, video cameras, etc. And that case didn't didn't get past a a motion to dismiss. Right. You're making the jump from that that they were looking for
[00:40:24] something related to the steel dossier and Trump could have just given those document backs. I always wondered in that one, why he just didn't give the documents back? Like why was he so steadfast? He could declassify anything as president, which was the likely scenario, but they but they did it anyway. I mean, I think but why would he just get I mean, if you were advising him, wouldn't you just tell him like, "Hey, just give the
[00:40:41] documents back." Like, I think he was in touch with the archavist. Um, and and that was an ongoing conversation. And then Jack Smith with the federal prosecutor down in in Florida moved with guns to seize these documents, right? I mean, it's very unusual. I just don't I mean, I just never understood why he just didn't give the documents back. It would just I mean I know Trump does unique things in the world and but I would have just
[00:41:05] given the documents back which is what every other president did when they were asked to give documents back. Sure. But except remember Joe Biden who wasn't ever president. He was vice president who can't declassify documents. Had boxes and boxes of classified documents in his garage where Hunter Biden lived. So like what you're down to now Jal, you started believing that Trump was a Russian asset. He's a Russian spy based Yeah, you did. You were tweeting it at the time. I I thought you should No, no, I didn't.
[00:41:33] I if I I always thought that was like a crazy concept. Deleted those tweets, but you did. No, no. It's okay. You were fooled by the media. It's okay. A lot of people were fooled. I said this very clear on the pod. I always believe the Russians wanted to create chaos like we're experiencing here in this discussion amongst Americans to distract us and that they would do it even-handedly with anybody. They would do it. people who are creating the chaos were actually the
[00:41:57] people who perpetrated this coup attempt against the president. The people who perpetrated the Hamilton 68 dashboard fraud. Those are the people who perpetrated the chaos. Sure. I I I think if the Russians were evidence you don't have specific evidence. You don't have specific evidence of a Russian hack. Go read Matt Taby's reporting. I just gave this I just gave it to you. The the RNC the head of the RNC said,