[00:52:44] desires of the Ukrainian people. Russia has five times the people, three times the or three times the people, five times the amunitions. Um they have an industrial base. Um this, you know, for for Ukraine, I think the next step here is um there has to be a negotiated piece here. This this can't go on forever. Europe is not in a position, I think, to provide what they claim to want to provide. in the United States of America. I mean, part of the problem is, and other people have made this point, that even if you spent, let's just say
[00:53:12] we wanted to spend another hundred billion dollars, the industrial base doesn't exist to build all of the stuff that they need right now anyway. Like, they have a there's a real problem here. And I think President Trump campaigned on the idea of negotiating a piece. I don't know why that's so controversial when um and I'm not saying from you, I'm saying but the pundits Yeah. It's like heav you know, the idea, you know, Russia has nuclear weapons. the
[00:53:36] idea that he wouldn't have a one-on-one conversation. Yeah, that's why I asked that question like, is there any still manning of this position that we shouldn't meet with Putin or, you know, President Xi or Kim Jong-un? We should obviously meet with all of them. It makes sense if we have even a 1% chance of making forward progress. When should the United States senator say, "Uh, enough is enough. We're out.
[00:54:02] Figure it out for yourselves." You've got the EU right there. You got Europe. They've got plenty of money, but America's out. If you want to buy some weapons, we sell weapons. That's fine. And I think Trump has done an amazing job of uh enforcing the loan lease that Biden set these up. So when we keep saying we're spending a hundred billion, that's no longer true, right? We're getting all that money back because
[00:54:21] Trump forced Zilinski to uh the negotiating table. We we're getting all that money back. But when should we just so we have clear facts here that it's not costing the American people you know this hundreds of billions of dollars anymore thanks to President Trump deaf negotiator I'll give him credit where credit is due but when should you we in your mind step back and say you know what not our problem anymore you guys figure it out because that seemed vice president JD Vance uh friend of the
[00:54:49] pod's position as well at some point we have to say enough and and Trump sort of said that too he alluded to that at some point we're Are we at that point if this doesn't get resolved this time around? Do you think? I think yeah, I think that um that's what this phase is all about, which is to give a legitimate peace process a chance. But the idea that that we're going to be voting on, I mean, I wouldn't support it. More aid, taxpayer aid to Ukraine for a war that, you know,
[00:55:19] doesn't seem to look like it's ever going to end and is a blank check is just unacceptable as a senator for a state in the United States of America, right? like it's just not now. President Trump, I think, has opened up avenues to to sort of make it clear to both parties that there's pressure that could be ramped up to try to bring this to a head. And I think that's where we're at. It's not going to all happen today. It's not going to all happen tomorrow. But that's really what this diplomacy in
[00:55:44] this Tik Tok age that we live in. I think we think it's instant gratification. But diplomacy is difficult when you're dealing with other countries with their own national interests and their own sort of inner dynamics. possible we walk away this year from the situation? You think? I don't know. I wouldn't want to put a timet. I would not want to get in front of the president who's actually sitting in front of the across the table from these world leaders. But look, I I think that he's been pretty clear. This is not our war. It's not our war.
[00:56:09] Um this is and but I think that up to this point, we've wanted to try to provide um a time and space for a solution. And I do think if there's anybody who can do it, it's Trump. Uh there's nobody else on the planet. I mean, Mcronone could not broker this. I mean, you know what I mean? Like, so it's the last best hope. Uh, my hope is that you do get to a peace process because you're just going to have billions of more people die. Um, and really,
[00:56:34] what do you think, Sax? You think we should walk away if we can't get this resolved with this latest volley of negotiations? Or at some point, should we should the president say enough? Because he's he seems exacerbated based on his public statements about this. He's kind of exacerbated with the two parties, it seems. Well, look, you're asking me what the president should do, and I'm not on the foreign policy team, right? I'm not going to venture and wait into
[00:56:58] that, but is it a possibility? I'll just say this. I'll just say this. Listen to what the Ukrainians want. I mean, Zalinsk's interests may not be the same as his peoples because as long as there's a war, there's no election. They've canceled democracy over there while the war is going on. Mhm. And as long as that is true, he stays in power. So he has incentives that may not be true for all of his people. His people want a negotiated peace. And you think if uh they give up the
[00:57:30] Dombas and whatever other regions, you know, are on the table here. Do you think Putin stops here or do you think we'll see him invade another country? Do do you worry about that, Sax? Do you worry that this is enabling his behavior, his worst demons? I don't think the Russians have the intention to invade another country and they don't have the capability. Look at how much trouble they've had. We're now three and a half years into the war. They're definitely winning the war, but they've
[00:57:53] only conquered this eastern part of Ukraine. They haven't for them. Yeah. They haven't made it to the Neper. I don't even think they can conquer all of Ukraine or at least it' be extraordinarily difficult and and resource consuming. So, I just think that this threat of of Putin conquering or attempting to invade all of Europe, this is threat inflation. That's my uh that's my take away from it, Senator. It's like Putin couldn't even take
[00:58:18] Ukraine. I mean, agree. Look, this is this is part of the inconsistency of the argument that I've heard in in the Senate for two and a half years, which is that he's Hitler, that he's about ready to march through Europe, and this is a we can't be Neville Chamberlain, and this is the moment, but at the same time, he can't get to Kiev, right? Like both things can't be true at the same time. So again, I think he's supposedly recruiting North Koreans to fight on the
[00:58:43] front line. I mean, like, what? It's so humiliating for him. All right, listen. Senator, you're welcome on the pod anytime. Great having you here. Everybody buy the book. It's out right now. I don't know if that's the interview you were expecting, but No, no, we had a He No, I g I I talked to him before you came on and I said, "Hey, listen. Keep it not like a monoculture here like, you know, Tucker and the senator were like highing the
[00:59:07] whole interview." But it was great. It was a great interview. It's a great Tucker Classic. You need to have a little spice here to I love the debate. I love free speech, which is why I wrote the book, The Last Line of Defense: How to Beat the Left Court. Available on Amazon right now. All right, everyone. Check it out. Everybody buy the book. All right, everybody. We'll see you next time. Byebye. Great, guys. Thanks. Great job, everybody. It was fun.
[00:59:29] [Music] I'm a moderate, truth be told. But right now, the left calls me a MAGA and then the right calls me a litard. So the only thing they have in common is they both think, right, I'm an idiot, right? Yeah. So I'm uh Well, everybody agrees, then maybe there's something to it. There could be consensus. You finally there's your cold open folks.