[00:30:05] guys and one girl I think running that you know in 15 when he did that I was not the smart one that said oh there's the the game changer that that's him I was like oh I love that person and I've known him forever and they're going to be so great it's not going to be Donald Trump but but at that moment in American history without that human being who is literally willing to swing for the kit fences every single day, a 100 times a
[00:30:30] day for the American people who owes no lobbyist not one thing. We were all hired with the idea that we owe not industry, not lobbyist one thing. Now, we need to listen to their concerns, but every day, all day, we're called to do what's right. And I don't know that that's ever happened, at least in our in my lifetime, in governance, in federal governance. So, I I want to talk about the irony of running the USDA with your
[00:30:54] policy background. This is an an organization that administers programs like SNAP. Yes. The federal crop insurance program, the direct payments program to farmers, commodity price support where the federal government, the USDA is buying commodities to keep prices high. And coming from a free market background, coming from a maximizing liberties background, small government background, wasteful government spending needs to be
[00:31:17] eliminated background. How do you reconcile the irony of running this department and how do you think about where you want to take this department with that background over time? Yeah, it's a great this is you're the first person to really dig down on this that I've talked to since I took the job and it's ex it's an extremely insightful and thoughtful question um that you raised because that's 100% true. My entire
[00:31:40] background is how to get government out of people's lives and how to get government quote handouts out of um p the private sector and how do we you know downsize significantly everything that that the government stands for and how do we let the markets work. Um I think two things. First, I have become an absolute avid believer in President Trump's vision on putting America first. Um, for years, you know, I was, well,
[00:32:10] that the cheaper goods from China are good for everybody, and and they allow those at the bottom of the economic ladder to have a better quality of life, and this is the market at work. Now that I've seen it in the first term, but especially as the agriculture secretary, realizing how poorly our products are treated on the world stage, the tariff, it just is, it's stunning to me that we let this go on for so long. the way
[00:32:35] Argentina treats our beef, the way China treats the way the way Brazil treats our corn. I mean, the way the UK treats our pork, and that's just in my world. I haven't even really studied the automakers and others. There is no doubt that that realignment has to happen for America to continue to thrive and lead on the world stage for another 250 years. That's the first thing. So, so really realigning my thinking after deep
[00:32:59] study and deep thought in his approach of America first, not free markets for the sake of free markets, but fair markets for the sake of America. Get parody first, right? With the goal of freer markets eventually. The second thing I will say and more on the USDA side is food security is national security. We have already lost tens of thousands of family farms in the last decade. If we continue on that trajectory, America
[00:33:30] will not be able to feed oursel. And the minute you become unable to feed yourself is the minute you lose all power on the world stage. The minute you have to rely on China or Brazil or Argentina to feed your people, you're done. And what has happened over the last number of years is China's been buying up a lot of our farmland in America. Um, a lot of our major meat packers, etc. are now owned by foreign ownership. And, you know, it's not all
[00:33:58] I'm not going to cast dispersions on everybody, but at the end of the day, we have to make sure that our agriculture industry is here in this country, that we are feeding ourselves, and that we're relying on ourselves. And so all of the programs that you just outlined are part of that effort. We lose our farmers and our ranchers. We lose America. Not just the the diligence and the hard work and the discipline and what that um
[00:34:22] righteous I believe the most righteous of all professions means. The beginning of our country was fought by farmers. But also we lose it from a national security perspective. And when that happens, we lose everything. Let's talk about farming and the farmer. Today, there's 2 million Americans that work directly in agriculture across, I believe, 1.8 million legal farms in the United States. China historically has
[00:34:49] bought $ 36 billion a year of American agricultural product. America is the largest a exporter in the world. So, we our our farmers are deeply dependent on trade. That's right. And um in California today, farmers have declared there's a 20% labor shortage. Meanwhile, there's a massive effort to address illegal immigration in the United States. Um, and I want to just hear like what's your view on the ground? You
[00:35:16] visited, I think you said, 15 states since you've been in office. Hundreds of farmers. Hundreds of farmers. What's the state of mind of the American farmer today? What are they feeling? What are they worried about? What are you hearing? The first uh three things on that. The first is that they are almost to a farmer. They are so supportive of President Trump even understanding that this current again trade renegotiation. It hurts and and they
[00:35:44] they they're not going to be able to survive that long, but they know that the president has their back. So that that's been really encouraging to me. Now, I have made a huge effort to get out into the country to meet the farmers to continue to shake hands and say, "We're with you." But in the long run, this is going to be so good for our agriculture industry. This renegotiation, these opening up markets under Joe Biden, we lost $50 billion uh
[00:36:10] in trade. We went from a Z trade deficit with Trump one to a $50 billion trade deficit with Biden. And that's $50 billion almost directly out of our farmers pockets. So that you know the short term but that the president is with them. But secondly to your point there are tremendous headwinds whether it is the trade renegotiation whether it is you know row crops especially being in the thinnest margins they've ever had
[00:36:35] in their lifetimes and then we export so many of those row crops that's almost a double whammy. the president's vision of a you know basically a disruptive restructure of the American economy includes the ship building and so for again a lot of the exporters that need that extra fee on top of that is just one more um and again that that Jame Greer and the team has been great they've been solving for that and
[00:36:58] ensuring that a is at the table and that every day and every decision they're making um they're doing that but but I think ultimately and this has been a big part of what I've been talking to the farmers about is ensuring that we're opening up those new markets. And whether it's India or Japan or South Korea or Brazil or Peru or the UK, I am going to all of those countries in the next few months. And this is just me on
[00:37:24] behalf of agriculture. This isn't our our trade crew, our commerce secretary. I mean, it's just me. But I feel so bullish on the idea that if we are we're on Trump time, we deploy Trump time, which is going as fast as you can, as hard as you can for as long as you can around the world. We're going to open up so many new markets for our farmers and then we solve for the labor issue, which you brought up, which is a really big
[00:37:49] issue. Now, I think sometimes the Californians tend to inflate that because What are you trying to say? Yeah, I know. They're they're they think a little bit differently. I hear it in Florida, too. Yeah. Well, and and there's no doubt our I'll give you one statistic from a large strawberry farmer. I work in strawberry um as well as other crops. Uh but the farmer mentioned that he he did an analysis. He thinks that since precoid days, the
[00:38:14] total labor cost in the strawberry industry has grown from 700 million a year to 2 billion a year. Wow. And that's really hurt margins. And so it's really hard to net a profit, particularly in specialty crops, not row crops where everything's automated, but specialty crops where you're dependent on labor doing work in the field, harvesting product to to be able to keep up with the the lack of labor and that of late there's been a lot of an exodus
[00:38:38] of of immigrants out of that that might qualify under the uh the visa program. So maybe I don't know if you're active or spending or the the department and and I'll and I'll put a little note a little um cross the tea on what you just said and that is I'm a Texan and our South Texas the citrus farmers down there think about in Mexico for some of them half a mile away they can see it right across the border now through the
[00:39:01] wall but they can see it and uh and the it's $2 an hour those farmers are paying $2 an hour over there. you come across on our side and with everything that we're required to do and pay and do it's 20 to $23 an hour. How do you compete? You're you're you're growing the same crops. You can't. And so that's what we really have to focus on. Our dairy farmers, you know, the the visa programs don't work for them. It's not a seasonal
[00:39:25] deal. Those cows have to be milked 365 days a year. They can't find people to to to milk the cows. So the president, not in today's cabinet meeting, but in the last one a couple weeks ago, brought this up himself and he said, and he and I talked about it in the first term, we've talked about it since then. He understands that there is a massive labor challenge for our farmers and our ranchers, especially our farmers in this
[00:39:49] country, but our ranchers as well. And he himself said, you know, that that those who are not here legally, they need to go back. they need to self-epport, but that we will ensure that there's some sort of program in place that will help make sure that our farmers on this side have the labor that they need. Now, the details of that are being worked out. I can't really talk much about it, but the fact that the
[00:40:12] president himself is focused on that should give our farmers some some a lot of encouragement that help help literally, figuratively, and metaphorically is on the way. Got it. I think that's a key thing for farmers to hear. they, you know, from what I hear from folks in the industry, it it's something that they want to make sure is is acknowledged and and addressed. Um, it's agriculture is such an interesting
[00:40:35] market. There's such an alignment with some of these conservative values that you and this administration espouse, but then there's such an important role that government actually plays. That's exactly right. that that is at this point you couldn't it's you know I I love Elon and love Doge and they've been such a good partner and helping us get rid of the the the $500,000 grant to study transgender menstruation cycles in
[00:40:59] men and you know the what the mice are going to do with under you blah blah the craziness he's been wonderful but um but agriculture in many ways is different you can't come in here and gut the crop insurance program you will lose lose thousands of farmers and guess who swoops in and picks up their land in their operation? The Chinese get you. You just can't do it. Now, my goal and my fervent prayer is that in four years
[00:41:27] from now, we will have moved. We will have opened up the markets. We'll have reached this new era of prosperity for our farmers and our ranchers. And in so doing, this should be the goal of every government program that we're able to roll a lot of that back and out and that we don't need it as much so the budget can come down over time. Exactly. Yes. That's the goal. The same with the food stamps. I mean, talk about 80% of the
[00:41:47] USDA budget is food stamps. Our goal needs to be moving people into a work, you know, a life of work filled with dignity where they don't need those programs anymore versus the last administration trying to get as many people into those programs as possible. Our goal is to move them off of programs because they have a good well-paying job and they don't need that anymore. No one wants a handout. Exactly. No one wants a
[00:42:09] handout. I think that's what a lot of a lot of people don't understand. And so effectuating on that is really important. Yeah. And I guess maybe you can share a little bit of the anecdotes. What's it been like with the Doge representatives that have been come into the department of a are they embedded? Are they long-term? Do you believe that Doge plays as an forget Elon? Yeah. But as um a department or whatever it is ad
[00:42:32] hoc department, does it play a long-term role in continuously improving and identifying opportunities for cost savings? thousand% and it's it's like all my dreams have come true. You know, I'll never forget when the president came down the escalator in 2015 and he was talking about for every one new regulation, we're going to get rid of two. And I thought, are you kidding me? For the first time, are we making
[00:42:55] deregulation fun and sexy? Like I've been talking about this in Texas and it no one wanted to talk about it, right? Even Republicans like, oh, you know, we can never get rid of once government's there, we just have to make it better. And Donald Trump 10 years ago started talking about it, made it a thing. The first year of Trump won for every one new regulation, 22 win. The next year it was 17, the next year 13, I think. And
[00:43:17] then by the end, because it got a little bit harder to find them, but still it wasn't two to one. Our average was like 10 to one in the first Trump administration. Well, then you add on Elon Musk and his, you know, team of geniuses who normally would never even think about being in government. Not that they wouldn't want to, but they wouldn't even begin to know how. You combine that with this idea that we're
[00:43:39] returning power to the people. We're downsizing government. We are not in charge that the we're not here for the people to serve us like some monarchy. We're here to serve the people. And that's a fundamental shift in the way we're thinking in the federal government. And then to add Elon on. So it actually right after our cabinet meeting, maybe right before a couple hours ago, I guess the news reports were saying, "Oh, he's headed back to, you
[00:44:00] know, do his business." I pulled him aside and I said, "I hope this isn't true. This country needs you and your team forever." And to see now the states begin to add their own doses. This is how we save America. This is how we protect the country. Hopefully that becomes the institution. It becomes institutionaliz. Exactly. And and hopefully we make it so powerful and get the people so involved that even the Democrats can't roll it back that this
[00:44:25] is the long-term plan for the country. for your uh department, there's a big farm bill negotiation that comes up. I've I've been in DC a couple of times for farm bills. I'll give an anecdote. Uh go in I have a conversation with someone on a committee or in an office and they're like, "Well, I I'll we can get this thing, but we got to go give the other guys this thing." And it it clearly becomes this bill that today I
[00:44:47] think is rated at a trillion five over whatever the the the the budgeting period is. It's one of the largest bills we pass and the SNAP program is in it. So it serves the House of Representatives interests and then all the farm programs are in it. So it serves the Senate interests because the Senate is heavily influenced by rural states, by agriculture. And so it's become this behemoth bill. And how do you view are you going to play a role in
[00:45:12] um and how do you view this kind of horse trading that needs to go on to ultimately reduce government inefficiency, spending on things that don't necessarily make sense as we get into this farm bill negotiation in the next couple of months? Well, I am encouraged that that the Biden team couldn't get it done. I mean, they worked and it's important. I know a lot of people are hating it and they should because it does become a Christmas tree
[00:45:37] of sorts, but the reference prices, which is what our farmers are paid on, have not been changed since the last farm bill, which was at the beginning of Trump one. So, Debbie Stabinau, who's now gone, was the lead Democrat in the Senate. The Senate was leading. Of course, Joe Biden wasn't. That team was sort of MIA. Um, we've got a different team on the ground now. And one of the very first conversations I had with Amy
[00:45:57] Clolobachar, who took Debbie Steanel's place as the lead Democrat, um, of course now we we're running the Senate, it's a little bit different, is how do we get this done? But realizing that the SNAP program, which is what the Democrats are always trying to put more money into, that grew 40% under the Joe Biden term, 40%. The program that was already this gigantic, you know, huge amounts of waste and fraud and abuse,
[00:46:21] it's now even more. And they did that on purpose, right? They knew it would be hard for us to roll that back. I'm underscoring your point that this is not going to be easy. That um the farmer part of the farm bill is 15% 15. The food stamp part of the farm bill is 85%. So I have been thinking about this already having conversations and strategy sessions on both sides of the aisle. Frankly, we've got to get this