[00:14:43] that moment that President Trump was going to run again. But the whole idea that we had just had four incredible years, that we had a team of people in the cabinet, Trump won, senior staff, Trump won, that finally not only knew how to talk about conservative issues, but knew how to govern from a free market, America first perspective. And that couldn't be lost. If we lost that team, if we lost that thinking, if we
[00:15:08] lost that knowhow, I didn't know if we'd ever get it back. And the Democrats are really good. The left is really good at government. We our side is really good at raising families and building business. And so this happens every time that we're put into government. We we have a team of people that have the best intentions, but we lose years because we don't know how to run a bureaucracy, how to deconstruct it, and how to
[00:15:32] reconstruct it. And so what I in the time frame exactly because that's it. It's the time frame. So, we launched the America First Policy Institute in uh quietly in early February of 21 publicly in April, almost exactly four years ago. Um, today in April of 21, I had nine former Trump cabinet members from Trump 1. 50 former White House senior staff. Many were volunteers at the beginning. Eventually, I could raised enough money
[00:15:59] to get everyone on payroll. But when the president won in November, AFPI and then our sister C4, we launched America First Works. was a $90 million operation in just a couple of years and I think fundamentally transformed the landscape. Part of it part of it, not all. Part of it was getting ready for a second America first term, whether that was Donald Trump or whomever. And part of that was having 300 executive orders
[00:16:23] drafted, having 196 agency plans ready. And we did it all very quietly. No, we didn't talk about it in the press. No one really knew it was happening. So that then translated to seven of our team are now on the cabinet. um dozens and dozens and dozens are um in the White House and and and along with our other partners that in those dark days of early 21, you know, from Steven Miller um that there were just so many
[00:16:49] of us that were kind of, you know, in solidarity in those early days, not knowing that we would be back, but if given the opportunity, we would answer the call again. So now you're in the cabinet, you're running the Department of Agriculture. It's been 70 some odd days, 100 days for the president. How have the first 100 days gone? What have been kind of the highlights for you in starting this term out? You know,
[00:17:11] everyone says, "Are you exhausted?" And it's a 7-day a week, 20 hours a day. And for me, there are days where I'm tired of me. I think I got here to DC. I was in uh doing tours all day yesterday with Secretary Kennedy. The day before I was in Ohio, I think that's right. Yes. Um two days before that I was in North Dakota. Then I'm back here. It's literally a 5:00 a.m. to midnight, seven days a week effort, but it's just such a
[00:17:37] gift. I mean, who gets to do this? And at an inflection point in our country's history, this is I feel like this is 1776 all over again. And I think about never ever to compare myself to, you know, the founding fathers, but those guys were farmers and teachers and businessmen before they declared independence from the greatest power the world had ever known, and that was Great Britain. and the king and and so in many
[00:18:03] ways I feel like our cabinet and this president has God's hand and that that's what we are called for as well. So while certainly we're working very hard and the 100 days has been extremely fast-paced, I think that's why you see the joy in the work is because we're ready for it. Some of the secretaries in the cabinet have talked about the need to deconstruct, tear down. Yeah. Rebuild, or in some cases completely
[00:18:29] dismantle the department that they're overseeing. What's your kind of mandate with agriculture? Is there a reform needed in agriculture like others have declared for their departments? Does it need to be rebuilt from the ground up? Does it need to be rethought or does agriculture work well and in the best interest of America? what's your general kind of take and your general mandate on the department of a yeah well and I think
[00:18:54] when you say you know does agriculture work well I think you mean USDA so the fact that we have an agency with 100 plus thousand employees um the largest budget item is food stamps that the SNAP program uh there are so many different divisions and contract I mean we are just getting started we've already canceled almost $6 billion a h 100,000 $200,000 at a time that's a significant ificant amount of contracts that we're
[00:19:20] cancelling. We are reducing in force to make sure that we are as efficient, as effective, and as flexible as possible. There is no doubt that USDA absolutely needs a realignment, a reconstruction, and a significant reorganization. So, that's what we are working through right now. the idea that USDA should be, you know, we've got other programs and and those are important like food stamps, although they need significant reform,
[00:19:47] but this agency should be should be about farmers and ranchers all day, every day and our egg producers. And how do we talking about the industry now, an industry that every year we lose more family farms, every year things get outsourced to other countries including China and Brazil. Every year it gets harder and harder for most of our farmers to make a living where they can support their family, pass their fourth,
[00:20:15] fifth, and sixth generation farmer ranch on to the next their sons or daughters. It's getting harder and harder. It's also getting harder and harder for new Americans, men or women, to get into the business of farming. It's almost impossible. there's not enough, you know, opportunity for capital to inject, to buy a new tractor, to buy the land, to figure out how to how to become, you know, part of this great historical
[00:20:39] legacy profession in American history. So, we've got a lot of things a here at the department we need to really really be refocused on and we are, but also there's some massive policy questions that we've got to think through. And then the the kind of the final big priority is these farmers don't want all these checks. I mean, they they take them. It's the way they stay in the black and the way they keep farming.
[00:21:02] It's a national security issue because we lose more farms. We buy more food from overseas. That's not good for the country for a lot of reasons. But at the same time, it they would like to be able to sell their product at a profit and not have to worry about the government, right? You know, at the end of the day. So, these are all big policy questions that hopefully we expand markets. The president's realigning the entire world
[00:21:24] economy right now, putting America first. All of those things combined, I believe, will lead us into a new era of prosperity where we can hopefully solve for most of that. I think they're all really good targets. Um, obviously tactically challenging, but can we start with SNAP real quick? I just because it's 70% of your budget. It is $123 billion a year. So, just to create some context, 13% of Americans are on the
[00:21:47] food stamp, the SNAP program at $123 billion a year. That's roughly, call it 2% of America's federal budget is going towards the food stamp program. And one key kind of policy point that's come up lately is that roughly 10% or 15 billion a year is spent on soda. Yeah. And 75% of the population on SNAP are clinically obese. Yes. And there's a real health concern about the SNAP program continuing to fuel a health crisis in
[00:22:23] America. What What have you and in partnership with Senator H sorry with Secretary Kennedy talked about with regards to addressing the health challenges that arise from the way the SNAP program operates today. Yeah, that's been a pretty big priority of ours. And uh within the first hour of being sworn in on February 13th, uh 50 letters went out to all 50 governors in the country. And in those letters, we talked about SNAP and innovation and
[00:22:50] send me your waiverss because the way the program works, it moves through the states. And so, and I love that anyway, like why would the federal government be telling everyone what to do? We want in the founders best vision of the 10th amendment to allow the states to to build those programs. But but within that was why are taxpayer dollars why are taxpayer dollars billions of taxpayer dollars being spent on sugary
[00:23:15] drinks and junk food to go into our supplemental nutrition program for our food food insecure populations. you know, our lower um income populations when to your point, the backside is an obesity and chronic disease epidemic unlike any developed country in the history of the world has ever seen. 74% of our adolescence, our teenagers would not pass the military readiness test of our United States military right now
[00:23:47] today. 75%. So again, talk about national security, talk about all of the things. This is a massive massive challenge facing America and in the first administration and you know health health care was under my portfolio in domestic policy as conservatives we've long talked about how do we make America healthy again but but very much from a numbers perspective right the the cost to the health care system at the back
[00:24:14] end of this it's not just the taxpayers funding it at the front end with the junk food and the sugary drinks and the the diabetes I mean just it's it's it's really stunning what's happened just in the last couple of decades. But then on the back end, the cost to our health care system and treating those chronic diseases is going to bankrupt our country. It's almost bankrupting all the states right now through Medicaid. So,
[00:24:35] how do we solve for that? And you know, enter Bobby Kennedy. And Bobby and I don't agree on everything, but we do agree on most things. And the opportunity I was just with him yesterday touring some farms and talking about nutrition and agriculture all day. the opportunity for the agriculture lead and the health lead to work daily handinand to solve this together. You can't solve this through government regulation. You just can't. But you
[00:25:02] solve it through nutrition, through empowering your farmers, through getting good food into these programs versus the ultrarocessed, etc., etc. We've all heard Bobby use these points and he couldn't be more right. And listen, it's a it's again talk about realigning the world economy with the president's vision of tariffs. It's also realigning how we look at food, how we as a federal government, to your point
[00:25:25] on SNAP and other food programs, we have 13 nutrition programs. Listen to this number. This is going to astound you. In America today, through USDA, this is not all the other agencies. This is just here at USDA. We spend $370 million a day on nutrition programs. So, not just SNAP, but food banks and all of the other ones. That's just USDA. That is a stunning number. We've got to do better. And um and so that's a big
[00:25:57] part of it. So, Secretary Kennedy and I are on this. We are so aligned. We've got the dietary guidelines we're doing right now. What shows up in DC as you guys try and make this move because there's a lot of money to That's just just to paint the picture. About a quarter of a percent of federal spending is going towards buying soda. Yeah. Okay. interest. What is what happens as you guys try and make these sorts of reforms? Who shows
[00:26:33] up and what do they try and do? Well, I I I will I will talk about it. I I will also say that those that represent those industries, they are they are good people who are raising their families and I do believe, you know, their talking point is freedom. Why should someone at the bottom of the socioeconomic level ladder not be able to buy the same things you and I could buy? Of course, my answer is, well, we're not using taxpayer dollars, so
[00:26:59] that's a big difference. And we're not paying for it on the back end. But I but I understand I understand where they would, you know, potentially be coming from, but the amount um of money that is at stake is reflected in the amount of lobbyists um that are out and about and um and certainly um very much a part of the Washington DC establishment, but it goes directly to why as difficult and as challenging as these policy issues are for All of us in
[00:27:32] President Trump's cabinet reflecting today on the 100th day celebration. It's also so different because none of us are of Washington. That was true in the first term and that's why I felt so freed. I could I could just do what was right. He just said go do what's right. But in the first term, we didn't really know yet how to do it, what we were doing, and who was on our side. That four-year pause in between term one and
[00:27:58] term two, it was the greatest gift. I mean, not only could we plan, but we also fully understood who was in it to save the country, what it was that we needed to do to get this done. And for me, this is so black and white. And I've told everyone this. I don't need to listen and have 57 meetings with lobbyists representing the industry. This is black and white. Taxpayer dollars be spent on sugary drinks and junk food that's making our kids sick?
[00:28:27] Absolutely not. Does that mean we shut them down? Does that mean? No, of course not. But it just means we realign and we spend the dollars where they need to be spent. We reform and hopefully we make America healthy again. I think this is one of the most important points about this administration is without having all the political insiders in the administration, there's no political leverage that can be applied and you can
[00:28:49] have a true objective first principles point of view on policy which seems to not have been the case for you know a very long time in the United States. Going back to the point about the founding fathers and that era of America, these were folks who ran farms, who ran businesses. They came and provided their time as civil servants for a period and then they left and went back to private service. That's right.
[00:29:12] And that government did not have the sort of political careermanship that I think allows lobbying and lobbyists to have the leverage that they have. That's right. In government today. Um that's exactly right. On both on both sides. This is I'm not I'm not it's not a party thing. It's not it's it's just it is an entire industry that has been built around this is the problem when the government gets too big right I mean
[00:29:38] this is the this is world history Greece Rome Spain France great every great world powerland has buckled under the weight of a government that hands out the large s right that that everyone's got their hand in the pot and they buckle and that's how they lose their place in the world right And that is what listen I sincerely believe that without Donald Trump coming down that escalator and I listen there were 17
[00:30:05] guys and one girl I think running that you know in 15 when he did that I was not the smart one that said oh there's the the game changer that that's him I was like oh I love that person and I've known him forever and they're going to be so great it's not going to be Donald Trump but but at that moment in American history without that human being who is literally willing to swing for the kit fences every single day, a 100 times a
[00:30:30] day for the American people who owes no lobbyist not one thing. We were all hired with the idea that we owe not industry, not lobbyist one thing. Now, we need to listen to their concerns, but every day, all day, we're called to do what's right. And I don't know that that's ever happened, at least in our in my lifetime, in governance, in federal governance. So, I I want to talk about the irony of running the USDA with your
[00:30:54] policy background. This is an an organization that administers programs like SNAP. Yes. The federal crop insurance program, the direct payments program to farmers, commodity price support where the federal government, the USDA is buying commodities to keep prices high. And coming from a free market background, coming from a maximizing liberties background, small government background, wasteful government spending needs to be
[00:31:17] eliminated background. How do you reconcile the irony of running this department and how do you think about where you want to take this department with that background over time? Yeah, it's a great this is you're the first person to really dig down on this that I've talked to since I took the job and it's ex it's an extremely insightful and thoughtful question um that you raised because that's 100% true. My entire
[00:31:40] background is how to get government out of people's lives and how to get government quote handouts out of um p the private sector and how do we you know downsize significantly everything that that the government stands for and how do we let the markets work. Um I think two things. First, I have become an absolute avid believer in President Trump's vision on putting America first. Um, for years, you know, I was, well,
[00:32:10] that the cheaper goods from China are good for everybody, and and they allow those at the bottom of the economic ladder to have a better quality of life, and this is the market at work. Now that I've seen it in the first term, but especially as the agriculture secretary, realizing how poorly our products are treated on the world stage, the tariff, it just is, it's stunning to me that we let this go on for so long. the way