[00:00:00] Secretary Rollins, thank you for joining me here. Can you call me Brooke? Brooke. Okay. I didn't I mean, I'm wearing a tie. There's a degree of formality. You just came from a cabinet today. I did. Food security is national security. America is the largest a exporter in the world. These farmers don't want all these checks. No one wants a handout. Exactly. No one wants a handout. $15 billion a year is spent on soda.
[00:00:25] Taxpayer dollars be spent on sugary drinks and junk food. that's making our kids sick? Absolutely not. Does that mean we shut them down? Does that mean No, of course not. Part of that was having 300 executive orders drafted and we did it all very quietly. No one really knew it was happening. We're not here for the people to serve us like some monarchy. We're here to serve the people. I'm here in Washington DC at the
[00:00:49] US Department of Agriculture to interview the 33rd Secretary of Agriculture, Brooke Rollins. We just had an amazing conversation talking about Brook's background, the work she's doing at the USDA, the impact Doge is having, food stamps, the sentiment of the American farmer, tariff and trade, and everything in between. Really amazing conversation. Thank you to Secretary Rollins for allowing me here today. I hope you'll enjoy the conversation.
[00:01:17] All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crush your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. Pal. Congrats on your first 100 days. First 100 days. Yesterday was the 100th day of President Trump and I like 70 days. But I'm President Trump yesterday, but today
[00:01:42] we celebrated together at the cabinet meeting and we're about I'm going back over to the White House right after we finish to do more celebrating. Great. Well, we appreciate it. The USDA is an incredible agency. It was founded under Abraham Lincoln, I believe, was established under Lincoln when I think I was talking to your staff. I think 60% of American uh workforce within agriculture at the time. That's right.
[00:02:03] And uh it's a really critical agency for American prosperity and has been really important for uh food security and for the interest of America around the world as a trade partner, the largest a exporter in the world. The agency is incredible in terms of the scale. 29 sub agencies, hundred thou over 100,000 employees, 4,500 locations, and an over $200 billion Yeah. annual budget. So really an incredible um uh department to
[00:02:29] oversee. But before we get into the USDA and talk a little bit about some of the work you're doing and have been doing, maybe we can talk a little bit about your background. Did you grow up on a farm? How did you get into agriculture? So yes, I grew up uh in a really small town in Texas. We uh were not farmers or ranchers per se in Texas. I grew up on a small farm. We raised animals. We bailed hay. But my family, my mom's side of the
[00:02:54] family, uh my grandmother, they had a big rowcrop farm in Minnesota. So I spent every summer um on that farm, corn, wheat, soy, pretty much everything you could consider and think of. So that was my rowcrop. um which has actually been very very helpful because coming from Texas and being more of a cattle raiser and being in cattle more which is what I'm in in Texas uh it's really great to have sort of both sides of the
[00:03:17] house and and I'm very appreciative to that but yes grew up in a very small town uh we didn't have much I was raised by a single mom but we did have the land and uh and on that land we raised our animals again we bled our hay I barrel raced every Friday night I grew up in 4 and FFA went to Texas A&M on an agriculture scholarship ship uh studied soil science and meats and and feeds and feeding and and really dove way into
[00:03:43] agriculture knowing I would go to law school. um I really had a heart for understanding policy and the people but thought I would really stay in agg um for the rest of my life and obviously sometimes the the path diverts and changes but um even over the you know the 20 years since I last worked 100% in agriculture which was for Rick Perry when he was first governor um then quickly moved into all the policy but
[00:04:10] but I've always stayed very much in touch and involved in a and always really worked in a polic policy, but as part of a much broader portfolio until this job. But um no, listen, the USDA is the people's department. That was what President Lincoln's vision was. Uh the American founding had four key agencies, of course, the attorney general, justice, state, and defense, which was war, state, you know, Department of War
[00:04:36] at the time, but defense. And that was really the beginning of our country were those four. Interior was added a couple decades later. And then agriculture that was sort of the um the cadence of of uh building a new government and creating some sort of self-governing structure that you want the power to remain with the people. But certainly as America moved from a frontier republic into you know as we know the the world's greatest
[00:04:59] economic superpower certainly you needed some kind of of governing structure. And so Abraham Lincoln in the 1860s uh believed sincerely that the you know the majority of Americans then were rural. They were agriculture related and that they needed um representation here in Washington. So the people's department was formed and uh this building was built uh in the early 1900s 19 uh 20s and uh and here we are today. Now
[00:05:26] through the years as you mentioned it has grown and grown and grown. I do believe it became a bit of a catch-all uh in some ways. You know, we we run the food stamp program, uh the SNAP program, the supplemental nutrition program. We run the forests, of course, forest services under forestry is under USDA. So, that's tens of thousands of firefighters as an example. Um and of course, all of the farming and agriculture related from rural
[00:05:51] development loans to farm loans to crop insurance. Uh and then and then of course moving all of the economic relief, etc. that sometimes is often needed. I am still getting my arms around, you know, two months in exactly everything that that we're we're working on here. But in President Trump's greatest vision and in his bold leadership, one of my top priorities is how we realign the USDA around its original purpose, which was serving the
[00:06:17] people and especially the farmers and ranchers. So really looking forward to continuing that work. But you were in the first Trump administration. I was in the first Trump administration. I think I was the only A major uh in the building and and I was doing a lot of different hats. I was working with Jared Kushner um in the office of American innovation uh and then was doing all the strategy. So kind of the big picture you
[00:06:37] know for the president and and the policy especially on the domestic side eventually ran the domestic policy team eventually towards the end um took on Kelly and Conway's team and some other portfolios. So really over the course of those three years in Trump 1. How did you end up in Trump one? Well, that is a really crazy long story. Um, I for my entire policy, my heart is in public policy. I have just I I first thought I
[00:07:04] may end up at seminary and be a pastor um a youth pastor and that was really where I was felt very called uh after college, but then realized that if I lean into public policy and I didn't know what that meant. I didn't even know what a think tank was, but that I could perhaps change more and help more people um going that route than if I just worked at a church. And so um I really kind of got excited about that idea and
[00:07:35] I was a big firm litigator uh for a couple of years after law school. did a clerkship, a federal clerkship for a judge in Dallas in the northern district. And then um got a call from Rick Perry, also another big-time Texas Aggie, a major from a from a a background, a rural town, and he just become governor. And in Texas, George W. Bush had just become president. They had the whole hanging chad. You know, when
[00:07:59] they think the election integrity issues are new to today, they are not new to today. This goes way back. But uh Rick Perry became governor. He was lieutenant governor. and he called me and I was sitting um billing my every six minutes the billable hour for this big law firm in Dallas. Loved the firm, didn't love the work. And he said, "Why don't you come join my new team down here in Austin?" I was 28 years old. I'd only
[00:08:21] been out of law school for a couple of years. And he made me his deputy general counsel. Um sort of shocking to everybody, but I'd known him. I met him when I was 15 as a future farmer of America. and he believed in me and and so that was really how the pivot as I was trying to figure out what was next. I really leaned into public policy and and I found in the governor's office it was a great experience. I only did it
[00:08:44] for two years at the very beginning of his administration, Rick Perry's uh that you could make such a difference. But what I realized was that there was no one at that moment in Texas governance that was lobbying for freedom and for liberty and for God and for family that all of those people that would come see me every day wanted something even in Texas looking for a specific law or wanting a little bit more taxpayer
[00:09:11] money. And I was I wasn't even 30 yet. So I was sort of new to all of it but I was put in a pretty a pretty highly you know responsible area. and it was so instructive to me. So anyway, long story short, I ended up um planning to sort of step away from uh any sort of official work. And my husband and I were ready to start a family. And uh I was going to do that for 20 years and then perhaps think about re-entering the workforce again,
[00:09:39] having no idea um what that even meant. But I got a call from Wendy Graham, who was then Senator Phil Graham's wife, chair of this organization I had never heard of, called the Texas Public Policy Foundation, and only had a couple of employees based in San Antonio. I was the governor's policy director at the time. I went from being deputy general counsel to taking on all the policy for Rick Perry. And she said, "Would you
[00:10:03] like to come do this?" I didn't have any kids at the time. And I thought, "Well, you know, I could do it for a year or two." And I didn't even know what a think tank was. But I did know that based on my experience in Rick Perry's office, I'm not an academic. I'm an A major from Texas A&M, but that if there were significant efforts to build a policy apparatus, I couldn't have articulated this 20 years ago, but I can
[00:10:24] now into what my instinct was. if there were a significant policy apparatus or apparatuses I guess um that were strategic and intentional and that didn't have clients that weren't paid to advocate for certain things. We only advocated for what was right that it could change everything in Texas, everything. I just been the policy director. I had no one telling me what the right thing to do was. I just had the industry and lobby in my ear.
[00:10:54] And so I thought, well, yeah, let me go do this Texas public policy thing for a year or two and that'll be fun. And then I'll really step away once my kids start coming hopefully. And uh and I looked up 15 years later with four kids, Luke, Jake, Anna, and Lily. Um I was doing the flexible work before it was a thing. Uh my board at TBPF was wonderful. Went from two employees to about 120. Became, I believe, the most effective public
[00:11:20] policy organization in the country. moved Texas because I had been in the sausage making. So I knew wasn't again was an academic which at the time most think tanks were run by but I understood innately how to stop bad things and how to move good things and that was really the bottom line and how to hire really really good people. So I got a call from Jared Kushner whom I had never met. I had been on the president candidate
[00:11:44] Donald Trump's economic team. Uh got a call when he was running against Hillary Clinton. would you help us just build out our economic tax plan, deregulation plan, etc. And I said, "Of course, but I run a nonpartisan think tank." And uh I'm always happy to help because obviously I think we thought Donald Trump was going to be more conservative than Hillary, but no one really knew, right? He'd been a Democrat, right, very
[00:12:06] early, not very long ago. And uh and I said, "But yes, if anyone calls and helps, I want them to understand the Texas model, what we did and cutting taxes and deregulating and the job growth that happened and how it helped poor people the most." Going back to my original idea of going to seminary and um and so he won. I was on that economic team. I was not interested in coming to DC or the White House. I told the team
[00:12:31] that. They said, "What would you like to do?" You were on the team when a lot of people weren't. And I said, "No, no, no. I'm going to stay in Texas and help." Then I got a call from um my now very good friend but then at the time didn't know him Jared Kushner who said whatever you're doing this is about six months into term year one of term one is that thing y'all are doing in Texas you know criminal justice reform um deregulation
[00:12:53] tax cuts I mean whatever all of the great things you've done that's sort of can you come just talk to me about how you did it and so I flew up to DC and flew up again and flew up again and he started saying we really need you in the White House we want you to build something very similar to what you built in Texas, a relentless, super strategic, very intentional policy apparatus that um could move things. And I said no and
[00:13:21] then I said no again. And then I said no again. And then my family and I finally um said yes. And so that's how I ended up in the last White House. And that transitioned into this this term. Obviously, you've kept in touch with the president and well, it's much bigger and more interesting story than that, I think. So, the final year of term one, I took it upon myself. I sort of anointed myself as the person that would ensure
[00:13:46] that when President Trump won the second term, yeah. On November 3rd of 2020, that we would be ready unlike we were not in the first term. And so I spent the year with Larry Cuddlo who ran the National Economic Council, Scott um Robert O'Brien who ran National Security Council and I was domestic policy at that point and really drove an effort to put together an agenda in the teams that would be ready for that second term. And
[00:14:13] so when that didn't happen and you know everyone else was discouraged, no one would hire Trump people. Um it was a it was a it was a very dark time. January 6th happened In November of 2020, I realized that what I had been blessed to build in Texas, what the Trump first White House asked me to help do within the West Wing, um, that that's what I needed to do on the national scale. Never never thinking for a second at
[00:14:43] that moment that President Trump was going to run again. But the whole idea that we had just had four incredible years, that we had a team of people in the cabinet, Trump won, senior staff, Trump won, that finally not only knew how to talk about conservative issues, but knew how to govern from a free market, America first perspective. And that couldn't be lost. If we lost that team, if we lost that thinking, if we
[00:15:08] lost that knowhow, I didn't know if we'd ever get it back. And the Democrats are really good. The left is really good at government. We our side is really good at raising families and building business. And so this happens every time that we're put into government. We we have a team of people that have the best intentions, but we lose years because we don't know how to run a bureaucracy, how to deconstruct it, and how to
[00:15:32] reconstruct it. And so what I in the time frame exactly because that's it. It's the time frame. So, we launched the America First Policy Institute in uh quietly in early February of 21 publicly in April, almost exactly four years ago. Um, today in April of 21, I had nine former Trump cabinet members from Trump 1. 50 former White House senior staff. Many were volunteers at the beginning. Eventually, I could raised enough money
[00:15:59] to get everyone on payroll. But when the president won in November, AFPI and then our sister C4, we launched America First Works. was a $90 million operation in just a couple of years and I think fundamentally transformed the landscape. Part of it part of it, not all. Part of it was getting ready for a second America first term, whether that was Donald Trump or whomever. And part of that was having 300 executive orders
[00:16:23] drafted, having 196 agency plans ready. And we did it all very quietly. No, we didn't talk about it in the press. No one really knew it was happening. So that then translated to seven of our team are now on the cabinet. um dozens and dozens and dozens are um in the White House and and and along with our other partners that in those dark days of early 21, you know, from Steven Miller um that there were just so many
[00:16:49] of us that were kind of, you know, in solidarity in those early days, not knowing that we would be back, but if given the opportunity, we would answer the call again. So now you're in the cabinet, you're running the Department of Agriculture. It's been 70 some odd days, 100 days for the president. How have the first 100 days gone? What have been kind of the highlights for you in starting this term out? You know,