[00:44:25] is the long-term plan for the country. for your uh department, there's a big farm bill negotiation that comes up. I've I've been in DC a couple of times for farm bills. I'll give an anecdote. Uh go in I have a conversation with someone on a committee or in an office and they're like, "Well, I I'll we can get this thing, but we got to go give the other guys this thing." And it it clearly becomes this bill that today I
[00:44:47] think is rated at a trillion five over whatever the the the the budgeting period is. It's one of the largest bills we pass and the SNAP program is in it. So it serves the House of Representatives interests and then all the farm programs are in it. So it serves the Senate interests because the Senate is heavily influenced by rural states, by agriculture. And so it's become this behemoth bill. And how do you view are you going to play a role in
[00:45:12] um and how do you view this kind of horse trading that needs to go on to ultimately reduce government inefficiency, spending on things that don't necessarily make sense as we get into this farm bill negotiation in the next couple of months? Well, I am encouraged that that the Biden team couldn't get it done. I mean, they worked and it's important. I know a lot of people are hating it and they should because it does become a Christmas tree
[00:45:37] of sorts, but the reference prices, which is what our farmers are paid on, have not been changed since the last farm bill, which was at the beginning of Trump one. So, Debbie Stabinau, who's now gone, was the lead Democrat in the Senate. The Senate was leading. Of course, Joe Biden wasn't. That team was sort of MIA. Um, we've got a different team on the ground now. And one of the very first conversations I had with Amy
[00:45:57] Clolobachar, who took Debbie Steanel's place as the lead Democrat, um, of course now we we're running the Senate, it's a little bit different, is how do we get this done? But realizing that the SNAP program, which is what the Democrats are always trying to put more money into, that grew 40% under the Joe Biden term, 40%. The program that was already this gigantic, you know, huge amounts of waste and fraud and abuse,
[00:46:21] it's now even more. And they did that on purpose, right? They knew it would be hard for us to roll that back. I'm underscoring your point that this is not going to be easy. That um the farmer part of the farm bill is 15% 15. The food stamp part of the farm bill is 85%. So I have been thinking about this already having conversations and strategy sessions on both sides of the aisle. Frankly, we've got to get this
[00:46:45] done for our farmers. And even, you know, to Senator Clolobachar's credit and other Senate Democrats on the A committee, they care as much about the farmer um in their states as I believe most of the Republicans do. It's a a is the number one industry in almost every state. And so trying to find that middle ground, but ensuring that we're bringing real reform to the SNAP program, but that we're most importantly supporting
[00:47:09] our farmers and our ranchers will continue to be the driver. As in all things, I think Donald Trump is the is the the game changer here and I think he's gonna help us get this done. So, I want to talk about one last point before we wrap, which is on um innovation generally speaking in food. There's been a large amount and how it relates to protecting farmers interests. Yeah. Um there's been a lot of investment in
[00:47:31] cellular agriculture using cells to make milk or eggs or cheese or fish or chicken. um you know using new biotechnologies and uh Dantis went on stage with a couple of ranchers from Florida and they passed a law banning the sale or production of cellular agriculture cellular products in the state and there are two other states that have passed laws others that are considering it now there's a conversation about some folks
[00:47:58] at the house also doing it and the general statement well there's already a regulatory framework for making sure it's safe for consumers making sure it's healthy etc. Some people might not like it, but I go back to my free market principles. Why not let consumers choose? As long as it's safe, as long as it's appropriately regulated, shouldn't it be made available rather than protecting the interests? Otherwise, you
[00:48:18] end up looking like Europe and Europe has stifled innovation in agriculture for decades and as a result, they have fallen way behind America and it's an opportunity for America to sustain its innovative advantage. Yeah. Do you have you spent any time on this topic? And do you have a point of view? Well, let me say this. I have not dug into this yet the amount that I need to. But having said that, I do believe that the
[00:48:43] innovation and the drive for better should never be stifled. And I sincerely believe that there is hopefully room for everyone, especially as this emerging market is happening. And I also believe that at the end of the day, the American consumer when most of them when having to decide between real American beef and something that's not that they're going to choose the real American beef. So I at least in my, you know, nominal
[00:49:14] knowledge at this point without digging in, I just believe so strongly in our in our ranchers and our farmers and what they produce and what it means to the average American family. I'm the mom of four uh and how I feed my family, but I don't think we ever want to get in the way of stifling innovation, especially as it relates to something that could eventually be such a gamecher. Well, Brooke, I really appreciate all the time
[00:49:37] you've given us given me today. Uh it's really great to spend this uh this hour with you and congrats on the role. Congrats on the progress and really look forward to seeing the work you're going to be doing over the years ahead. Thank you. Oh, thank you. It's an honor to do it. Thank you. Thank you. [Music] I'm going all in.