[00:15:41] building a business and you're like, I'm just going to enrich the lives of my customers and make them happy. And your competitors literally don't do that. Are they My competitor is building an indoor mall with no trees or light and an escalator. And so, you're just shaking your head like, how is this how is this even possible? Well, don't you want to be in a place that feels good, makes you happy? You see trees, you have water, you have
[00:16:04] flowers, there's nice music. Nobody's feels like the perfect platform or or a stadium. So, that's where that platform gives you this incredible power and authority to go do things. I mean, you look at the Rosewood Miramar, our resort. We have a full train running through it. Everybody stayed away from that property. And when I announced we're going to build a five-star hotel, everybody said, "You're crazy. You got a
[00:16:30] train running through it." We made the train an amenity, right? We built a bar next to it with a bell that gets rung when the train comes by and people celebrate it. Yeah. So, that's enriching lives. I I just love watching people enjoy their life and that's what fuels my public service and it's what I really enjoyed when I worked for three mayors when I worked for Tom Bradley and Dick Re and and Jim Han. You can actually
[00:16:58] make changes in public service that makes people's lives better. How great is that? No text That's great. People don't know this widely uh but tomorrow is the 175th anniversary of the state of California and Governor Nuomo uh it's a great state and um it's an amazing place. Governor Nuome is giving his state of the state tomorrow morning. If you were in that seat, what would you say at the state of the state tomorrow? What's your
[00:17:25] read on the state of the state of California? I think the state of California should lead the nation in everything that we do. I think the state of California should have the best housing. It should have the best school system, the lowest crime rate. We should not have homeless living on the streets. We should have opportunities for people to grow a business, raise their family, feel good about life, be enriched, and we should
[00:17:49] be in the top of every category that you want to measure quality of life. If if you say we're the fourth largest economy in the world, which our elected officials say very often, then act like it. And the people of California should be benefiting from being the fourth largest economy in the world. How would you deal with homeless? You got these encampments. We're driving around here downtown LA. It had such a renaissance for a short
[00:18:18] period of time. It feels like it's devolved again. It has. And it just seems to me that there just should be zero tolerance for camping on the street. Yet here we are again with encampments everywhere. What would be your approach? Well, my approach was simple when I ran is you can't allow encampments on the street, but you've got to give people who are on the streets an opportunity to have a productive life. So give them the
[00:18:45] services they need, build the housing that they need. We are spending in the city of Los Angeles $900,000 per person that they're removing from the streets. $900,000 per year or Yeah. Oh my god. There's billions and billions of dollars wasted. redirect that to organizations that have incredible track records of being successful in Los Angeles of housing people, giving them the services for mental health and drug addiction.
[00:19:19] And the first thing you do is you do not allow the sale of drugs on the street right now. We do I mean this that's a crime. It's illegal. Don't allow it. It is a crime. Yeah. I I mean if you look at fentinol, it is just a different category of drug. We've seen the president who you don't agree with everything on, but he's taking a pretty hardline stance to the point at which he's activating the military. Pretty controversial. What's your take
[00:19:43] on that? I think we should actually have secure borders and shut down the drugs 100%. Absolutely. So, in full agreement with the president? Yeah. I I don't know how you can say I want to have a livable society, a quality of life, allow people to build a business, raise a family, and then at the same time, you allow drug dealing to go on the streets. You just can't do it. We have an area out here called the Seulva Basin. I got a call from a
[00:20:09] resident yesterday, and this poor resident that lives out in Enino was talking about the amount of encampments in Seulva Basin. And what they have done now, the homeless, he's telling me, is they've made these booby traps and connected homemade bombs to them. Oh my god. So when the police of the fire department try to go in there, this one firefighter was severely injured, lost an ear because it hit a trip wire
[00:20:37] and he had called the mayor. The mayor said, "Well, it's very complicated to try to figure out how to get in there to clean it up." It's not complicated. You go in there and clean it up. Period. Full stop. Period. full stop. We just got to do that. So, one of the complications here is the Democrats don't seem to want to clean up these cities. The president has checkmated them by saying, "If you don't clean it up, I'll clean it up." Seems
[00:21:04] like a midterm driven approach. What's your take on the National Guard being sent into these cities? Because if Karen Bass won't clean it up, if JB Pritsker won't clean it up, is there an argument for the president to send the National Guard, it seems like overreach in one way, but we're sitting here talking about absolute incompetence and a refusal to deal with this issue. The people who are affected by it are like,
[00:21:28] "Yeah, send the National Guard in if that's what it takes." What's your take? Well, my take on it is sending in the National Guard in Washington DC is a very different situation than sending the National Guard into LA or Chicago because Washington DC is a federal territory. So, that's different. What I think should be done is we should hold our elected officials accountable to have a police department that's fully
[00:21:53] engaged and given the authority to enforce the laws. And we're not doing that. You're not backing They're not backing up the cops. They are not backing up the cops. The cops are not allowed to clean up the streets. The cops are not allowed to hold people accountable for selling drug on the streets. There's a whole bunch of protocols in the city of Los Angeles that do not allow the cops to do their job. The any kind of federal
[00:22:19] interference, I think, should be the very very last resort. So, I don't support that. I don't support it. But I do support a fully engaged leadership system that require that the laws be enforced and give police the opportunity and not only that demand that they enforce the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the next governor and mayor of California, Los Angeles, Rick Russo. Thank you. That was fantastic. Great. Thank you very much. That was
[00:22:51] great. My gosh. Appreciate you, brother.