[00:15:29] with you, Shervin, uh, as to the plan, which I know you're helping construct, and I'm assuming you'll help execute on. Trump says he's going to pick the next leader. Trump says a lot of things. He says them sometimes in a provocative uh, way, but he said he's not sure how you would play within your own country. There's obviously people holding up your picture. There are people who are maybe vying uh to take control of this from
[00:15:54] the previous administration. Are you in touch with President Trump and what's your relationship with him today? What's your best plea to him or your argument to him to work with you? >> Look, uh there's nothing hidden in the agenda. Everything is transparent and I've been communicating with the administration by uh Steve Witkov who announced it publicly. That's was our channel to President Trump and of course
[00:16:21] on the other side in the legislation with members of Congress, senators and Congress people to understand a little bit from the American prism what it is that we are proposing here. I don't think that President Trump or any other leader in this world would presume that it is up to them to determine who should be the next leader in Iran. I'm sure as democracies they respect the right for people to make that choice and as
[00:16:45] western democracies it should be going without saying that they would believe that the the right to choose the future leaders is only up to the Iranian people. If the intention is to assist that process if the intent is to support the Iranian people in their democratic aspiration you provide them with the help but the choice should be theirs. That has been my position and I don't think there's a disagreement on that
[00:17:10] whether it is with President Trump or other world leaders that I've also talked to about this matter. >> As I let you go, what should the American people know about the spirit, the culture, and the people of Iran, including the people who fled in 1979 like you and your family? >> Well, I I know many Americans who have many Iranian friends. As a matter of fact, if you just look at the Iranian diaspora in the United States alone, you
[00:17:36] will see how much uh interaction there is between Iranians who are now Iranianameans, if you will, many of them, and the kind of relationship they have built with their American counterpart. Many people have uh connections via marriages. Many people have connections through business affiliations. Many people have worked with Iranians. Many of the high-tech companies including Silicon Valley employ so many Iranians or they are
[00:18:03] themselves entrepreneurs. This is the kind of potential and I'm sure Shervin will talk to you more about that. But this is the kind of connections there is. And for Americans that have traveled to Iran or have known Iranians all these years, they know what what what country it represents, what amount of culture, arts, um I mean civilization in a true sense Iranians represent and they've been completely suffocated under this
[00:18:28] regime. But once Iran is uh is uh you know free from its shackles uh I'm sure a lot of Americans know um what difference there is between an Iran that wants to be friends with America that is not the regime that has from its inception called death to America or death to Israel for instance >> but there are Iranians who actually love to America. Let me just give you a last parting thought because I think every
[00:18:55] now and then I need to remind your audience and other audiences. We talked about other countries in the region. Remember 911? >> Yes. >> And how many people on the streets of many of the so-called allies of the United States were celebrating that attack on that sinister day. The only country in the entire world in the entire region that actually stood in candlelight vigils in sympathy to the victims of the 911 terrorist attacks
[00:19:21] were no other than the Iranian people themselves holding candle light vigils in Iran. And they've been messaging America for years now. We are not your enemies. In fact, they've been chanting slogans in Iran saying they lie to us. It's America. Our enemy is right here. This is the Iran I'm talking about. This is the people I'm talking about and I know many Americans both in the civilian sector including military forces in
[00:19:47] America know that and I think that's something that I'm sure I'm not the only one uh you know talking about this. You will hear from other Iranians who will pretty much confirm what I just said. That's why this partnership is so vital for us because together we will be able to rebuild um uh you know a different world. Iran will bring an element of stability to the region and beyond and that can only play to the interest of
[00:20:13] America itself. We need to have this vital partnership and I think we'll be able to succeed because I see everybody now is very much committed to work together towards uh bringing this agenda forward. Well, we're we're all praying for the people of Iran to have a democracy and what an amazing moment it will be uh when you get to return in whatever capacity and help this transition and 93 million people who have been suffering will be living free
[00:20:40] in a democracy and the impact that could have on the world and obviously that region would be by far the largest democracy in in uh the Middle East. uh and and this could have ramifications in terms of humanity that would be absolutely stunning and beautiful and the prosperity would be amazing. The Iranian people I met in my life uh Prince when I was living in Los Angeles, all these great Persians I would meet uh
[00:21:07] were some of the most joyful and industrious beautiful individuals I've met. They remind me of my Greek and Irish heritage, including you, Shervin. So, Prince Resin, thank you so much for your time. I know you're extremely busy. It's very important for the all-in audience to hear from you uh and to understand what's going on in your vision and we would love to have you back when you're on the ground uh with your people and that your people are
[00:21:30] free. >> Thank you again. Looking forward to it. >> All right, Shervin. Thank you so much for setting this up. >> I ask for very few favors for my friends, but as a good friend, you made this happen for the all-in community. So, we I thank you for that. And uh as I as I said to to the prince, the people and and the Persians here in the United States, maybe you could tell us a little bit about your story and and what this
[00:21:53] means to you and then we can get into your involvement here and what you hope to see in those first 100 days. >> Of course. Uh first of all, Jason, thank you for opening up this tremendous platform to the Iranian people and to the prince. Uh as you can see, uh the crown prince Razip is a is a great man. uh the most courageous man that I've ever met. Uh and he's the highest integrity human I've I've met as well.
[00:22:18] Uh we're very blessed as a people to have a leader like him. Uh who has lived a very clean life uh and has uh stepped up in a very courageous way. has put it all on the line for his people and his legacy uh to play this tremendous transitional role to evolve the Iranian uh nation to a democracy. Um and this long nightmare of 47 years that all of my Iranian brothers and sisters have suffered through um uh is almost over.
[00:22:50] And uh also a tremendous gratitude to President Trump uh for his courageous leadership on this matter. Uh I don't think any other president uh would have the courage and the principle and the values to take on this Islamic regime of terror. As you saw last month, uh they massacred uh over 43,000 Iranians who were just peacefully protesting. They gunned them down with anti-material bullets. I I put a post of a Coca-Cola
[00:23:21] can next to these bullets. It was bigger than the can. Uh that's what >> and this is super important to to meditate on for a second here. This regime >> is a murderous and evil regime to turn those guns and mow down 40,000 in over 40,000 individuals peacefully protesting is just an act of savagery and brutality that I think most people don't appreciate and uh or don't fully appreciate. Um and we there hasn't been
[00:23:47] enough coverage of that fact. >> No. >> And you are a bipartisan type person. and I've known you for many years. You were a super uh funer of uh Obama. He he wasn't able to get this done. Biden wasn't able to get this done. Bush wasn't able to get this done. This has been something that presidents have struggled with. And you got to give Trump credit here. There's a lot of debate over why this is happening. Is it
[00:24:10] Israel driving it? Is it the relationship with China? We talked about that in part one. At the end of the day, as a son of Iran, what matters is that the people are free. All these other conspiracy theories theories and motivations do not matter to you or the people. Yeah, >> absolutely not. I uh but one of my key principles is our our our sec our moral security precedes our physical security. So this has as much
[00:24:41] to do with American uh security as it does Iranians security and livelihood. As you saw, this regime is not only uh evil enough to mow down 43,000 innocent people in 48 hours. Their reaction to this liberation operation is to attack over 12 countries in the region. Imagine if they had a nuclear bomb, they would use it. >> They would use it. There's not even a doubt in my mind that they would have used it by now uh if they had it. Uh so
[00:25:14] this is uh incredibly important for America's national security. Um as uh the prince mentioned 9/11 uh happened. Uh that's the same kind of ideology except the problem we have in our modern time is that basically criminal and terrorist organizations have taken over sovereign nations with nuclear bombs or seeking nuclear bombs. Wherever you have Russia, uh China, uh you have you have North Korea and you have Iran. uh and
[00:25:42] then you had Venezuela. So the president has not only uh gotten rid of the Maduro in in Venezuela, he has now uh begun this process of dismantling this this Islamic regime who is absolutely uh not a legitimate government and not a legit legitimate u nation state. Uh and the only leader that uh is legitimate to lead us to a transition process to become a democracy is uh the crown prince resale. We are very lucky uh I
[00:26:13] think in our modern times to have three leaders who are living at the same time and leading at the same time as President Trump, President Netanyahu, um Prime Minister Netanyahu and and the Crown Prince Resali all at at in this one moment in time. I think we're living in biblical times when 107 happened. Um, I started the Israeli Iranian alliance with Michael Eisenberg, Michael Bhine, Jesse Matin, Sean Rad, uh, and we
[00:26:41] started to host these salons with the crown prince. One was in New York, Michael Eisenberg flew in, Dan Lo, lots of, uh, leaders came. Uh and that was the beginning of the process uh that was seated with a breakfast with Michael Eisenberg as a VC and the number one VC in Israel uh 15 years ago where we said we have to do more between Israeli and Jewish community and the Persian Iranian community and someday we're going to
[00:27:08] have uh tea in Thran. And we wrote an op-ed last year about this. And we began to build these bridges. Uh and this connection between the Jewish people and the Iranian people goes back 2500 years. Cyrus the Great, who's in the Bible, uh freed the Jews from uh slavery in Babylon, returned them to their homeland in Jerusalem, and rebuilt their temple. uh and that he is celebrated for that courageous act uh in the Bible and in in
[00:27:39] uh Jewish religious uh you know holidays and and it is a tremendous connection that goes back now 2500 years later in kind of biblical symmetry you have the Jewish people helping free Iranian people from their slavery and at the same time there is a connection between America's beginning that many people don't know is that Thomas Jefferson was uh a student of Cyrus the Great who declared the first declaration of human
[00:28:06] rights and a lot of the principles that went into the Declaration of Independence of America and the founding of America and the Bill of Rights and the Constitution have had its roots in Cyrus the Great and Persian history. And so this connection between America's founding and the principles that the Iranians uh espoused for 2500 years uh is this beautiful connection between the Jewish people, the American people and
[00:28:33] the Iranian people. >> And this could have such a tremendous impact on the region. You have essentially a lone democracy in Israel. Uh and now to have 93 million Iranians in a democracy, if if that can be achieved, and listen, there's a long way to go. this could spiral out of control. This was a very high-risk move uh by Trump. President Trump should give him a lot of credit for that, but he has to own this. So, let's be humble
[00:28:59] and and we got to pray for the best here. Things can spiral out of control in these kind of situations. But let's hope that we do get to democracy there. I'm curious, Shervin, you've spent a lot of time in the Middle East. I have over the last 3 years gotten myself educated and caught up I hope and have started doing business there and and really meeting a larger swath of people. The Gulf monarchies have modernized
[00:29:21] incredibly starting with the UAE, Saudi uh now the kingdom and of course Qatar uh as well modernizing Oman, Kuwait. What would Iran going straight to a democracy if that is even possible? What would that do to the region in your mind? I think that uh everything it what what the Gulf countries have done uh is a tremendous case study of what the potential for the Middle East truly is. Uh being blessed uh by God to have oil
[00:29:54] gas the way that most GCC countries have and Iran uh so has uh gives them an advantage to be able to have the resources independently to develop themselves. And when you look at what happened in UAE over the last 25 years, I went to UAE in 2001 2002 and there was a smattering of buildings there. >> Yeah, I've seen the pictures of Dubai then and now. >> It's extraordinary. It's incredible. And it it reminds me of what America was
[00:30:22] like in the 1950s when they came from back from World War II. Eisenhower buil built the interstate highway system and America developed into this superpower. Uh and and in many ways the GCC countries espouse that American mentality of everything is possible. Anything is possible. And they've manifested their greatness. And you look at Iran, you have 93 million unbelievably brilliant people who have been held back. You look at the Iranian
[00:30:51] diaspora in America. just our fellow friends who many people know Dar Uber myself at Uber of course um Omid Cordistani at Google and Ali at at data bricks um you know pier at eBay when you add up the numbers it gets to trillions of dollars of value have been created by this small population of Iranians in America and especially in Silicon Valley and I've been blessed to be part of that circle and you know one thank God for
[00:31:22] America America that we had a a safe sanctuary to come and develop our brilliance. But there are as many there's uh as many brilliant Iranians way more brilliant Iranian. >> Yeah. On a numbers basis it's it's a magnitude more. >> And so this will be a free democratic Iran will be the greatest peace dividend and economic dividend to be gifted to the world and to the region. So I think what'll happen is um we will have an
[00:31:48] acceleration of the Middle East becoming this uh unbelievable place where innovation and investment in the future is happening. We're at the dawn of AGI and advanced super intelligence. We have quantum computing which you and I you know and Emil Michael and others have done with our you know our our spa um and D-Wave. These these technologies are are going to fast forward humanity and being able to tap into the resources of the Middle
[00:32:18] East and Iran in in human capital and in the oil and gas wealth to be able to unleash an accelerated future is something that uh we all look forward to. And one of the things the team uh the crown prince's vision uh this is a 175page report right here the Iran prosperity project and I'm blessed to be an adviser there with many other very talented uh Iranians um and this piece by piece month by month uh has a
[00:32:49] sequence of of plans to rebuild Iran as the crown prince was talking about so that when there is a free Iran there will be a a four-month process C to get to a a referendum. Um, and then a six-month process to u assemble uh Iranians to to write a constitution. Uh and then a 14-month process to actually finalize uh the the constitution and then have a vote on the constitution. So you'll have a a sequence of events that
[00:33:19] will then lead to uh a legal framework uh where uh the the the new Iran will be able to actually execute on this on this tremendous plan uh and rebuild uh all aspects and all sectors of the economy. Uh and that'll lead to um you know uh this new Iran that we're all have been dreaming and praying for. >> And and so this plan's been worked on for some time. He seems like he's got, you know, a third or so of the
[00:33:48] constituents there who are in favor of him. There are some people who are strongly opposed. Last time his father was not perfect. He's answered many of the hard questions about his father's uh tenure. What are the chances that the existing regime, what's left of it, there are people in that who would collaborate on moving to a democracy where specifically religion and the government were separated. This was something NBS was able to do in