[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to part two of the All-In podcast, episode 263. We promised you a part two because we are very lucky that my dear friend Shvvin Pishavar was able to set up a very important historic interview for us today. None other than Prince Resa Pavi is here and we have a limited amount of time with you uh Reza. And uh may I call you Resa or should I call you Prince Resa? >> Sorry. Thank you.
[00:00:31] >> Uh, >> thank you for having me on your program. >> It It's great to have you and this is a moment I think you've been waiting 47 close to 50 years for which is we are at this moment in time looking at potentially the people of Iran being free. You left the country and when you were 17 years old to become a pilot and now you are looking to help your people with a transition post this military activity this operation
[00:01:04] essentially a war that's going on right now that we all hope gets resolved quickly. I think people would love to know what is your vision for Iran post this uh military action. >> Well, thank you again for the opportunity. Before I get into that, I wanted to simply uh stress the importance of this intervention that to us was like a rescue mission. It was literally an a humanitarian intervention to protect more lives that would
[00:01:38] otherwise be lost under this extremely brutal and repressive regime that as you know has massacred as of late uh tens of thousands of innocent and unarmed citizens in order to equalize the playing field. This was a much needed uh intervention that a lot of Iranians asked for and fortunately it did happen. But what's the next step? Where are we headed to? The most obvious question will be once the regime collapses how do
[00:02:04] we manage the transition. I've stepped in to lead this transition with the help of many of my compatriots from various sectors. We believe that a stable transition will lead to a address the immediate needs of the country but then set the country on a path of redevelopment and reconstruction which is of course something that we were always hoping for that could not have happened under this corrupt mafiaike regime. Iran should have been had it not
[00:02:31] been for the revolution today's South Korea of the region. Instead, it has become the North Korea of the region. Why? Not because our people are not gifted or talented or capable, not because we lack uh natural resources. It's simply because of a corrupt bad management and a regime that basically took our country hostage, used it as a launching pad to export an ideology. And that's why we are here today. A different Iran, a democratic secular
[00:02:58] Iran will first and foremost bring about the opportunities to our nation. But it will open Iran for business again. Iran is one of the most untapped economic opportunities of the 21st century. And it could tremendously uh change the shape of our world in terms of what would be beneficial to the Iranian people of course but also from the vantage point of a country like the United States and billions of dollars
[00:03:24] that will be generated as a result of doing business in Iran. We figure about 1 trillion in the first 10 years to the US market but also billions of dollars that will be invested into Iran and everything that we need to have done in order to rebuild our country. These are crazy opportunities that uh we can look forward to. And it all starts with uh moving towards this recovery and transition. And when your father was in
[00:03:52] charge, it was a monarchy turned into a dictatorship. And to be clear, the hope now is to evolve into a democracy with free elections for the people. Average age of people in Iran now early 30s, 31, 32 years old. What would that look like? what is a possible timeline and you are uh have said on other programs and on your YouTube channel which I suggest everybody go search for and follow right now because you're speaking directly to
[00:04:17] the people on X and on your YouTube channel. What is what is the condition on the ground from the people you're talking to? You said you've been talking to uh people in the military, civilians and other leadership. They're ready to move on. What's the timeline and what are they telling you is happening on the ground today as we sit here? >> Well, I think that now the playing field has been equalized, meaning that the
[00:04:43] people could finally, of course, awaiting the end of this campaign have a better opportunity to re-engage the streets and take over uh their homeland. uh of course part of the equation is how much implosion from within the regime and how much defections from the regime in the sense of joining with the people this time and not be an instrument that will halt the people's progress but instead help the people in that
[00:05:07] transition meaning uh whether people are in the military or security forces as well as the civilian bureaucracy unlike what happened after the fall of Saddam Hussein and debatification the scenario of change in Iran is totally different and let's not forget Iran is a multiple century old nation state. It's a country that is extremely unified and united for this common purpose. Under this tent, we have diverse uh groups that are joining
[00:05:35] in this national campaign. People who are on the right, the center, the left, monarchists, Republicans, ethnic groups, religious groups, every sector of society is engaged. I have had tremendous amount of support coming from inside Iran. We have the support of the uh intelligencia. We have the support of universities. We have the support of the working class. We have the support of uh the diaspora that can bring a lot to
[00:06:00] this equation. I think this is a good recipe that will allow us to manage this transition but set the country to clean up, be ready for business and create the opportunities that will finally impact first and foremost Iranians who have been starving as a result of this regime's corruption, but have a true opportunity to get back on track and improve their livelihood. And I think it's also good for those who partner
[00:06:26] with us in this process because there's a lot to be uh done that will be win-win as opposed to be lose-lose to the benefit of this corrupt regime. That has been the story of the past almost five decades. So the difference lies about this change and how crucial it is. And of course the reason we want to have a secular democracy, the final form to be determined by the people of Iran through pre-elections and a constitutional
[00:06:48] process. But most importantly is that under equality and the rule of law, all the opportunities that has been denied our nation as a result of his discrimination, as a result of uh pretty much disenfring the majority of Iranians, now it creates a true opportunity. And as I said earlier, I think Iranians are quite gifted. As much as it is attractive to uh an entrepreneurs in the outside world looking in, there are so many gifted and
[00:07:14] talented young Iranians who will have a fair chance this time, a true chance for being uh using all their creativity and genius uh to bring our country back online. This will be an excellent fantastic partnership that we're looking forward to. >> So you've spoken about wanting to be on the ground there. What conditions and what timeline do you have for yourself? And this seems like a a pretty high-risisk thing to do. It' be pretty
[00:07:38] brave of you to uh go to the country now. What conditions have to be met for you to go to Iran to go home for the first time in 47 years? And how close do you think we are to the people taking the streets now and for starting this transition? >> Well, to be honest with you, it's very difficult to put an exact timeline. uh factors that will expedite it is the level of separation from the regime, the level of defections, uh the
[00:08:08] strengthening of domestic organizations and structure, how can we partner with elements from within that are not joining this campaign. All of these are factors that will contribute to the rapidity of the of the transition. As far as myself being there, obviously there are security concerns to make sure that it's safe enough for me to go there. I'm no use to anyone if I'm dead. So obviously we have to keep that in
[00:08:30] mind but I would like to be able to be there as soon as possible. Uh to be able to help as much as I can in this process. Obviously being in a country is an advantage. It's hard to do things from far away. I had no choice to be living in exile because of the circumstances. But I think that the opportunity is presenting itself and um the the first opportunity that is created for me to safely return to Iran will obviously be there. Just this
[00:08:54] morning, Trump said there will be no deal in Iran until unconditional surrender uh is given by whatever is left of the government there. What do you think of that condition? Is that the right move? Do you agree with Trump's ultimatum? >> Well, let me look at it from the domestic prison. In order for a successful transition to occur, it has ultimately to be something that is legitimate in the eyes of the Iranian
[00:09:23] people. We haven't lost so many tens of thousands of lives just to settle for a continuity of the remnants of this regime. That will not fly. People will want to have a clean break. The alternative will be for all those who align with the secular democratic alternative. And there are some four core principles that who whoever adheres to to that including people who may today peel away from the regime um would
[00:09:48] be able to agree to work together on that platform. The first and foremost issue is of course Iran's uh territorial integrity. That's an issue that is very close to the hearts of millions of Iranians representing every aspect of our diversified uh country in terms of ethnicities, religions and what have you. But we find ourselves in this united uh uh cause under one flag and under one nation. The second element
[00:10:14] that is a prerequisite to democracy is a clear separation of religion from state. That's a critical element for a democracy to occur. Equality of all citizens under the law and the rule of law obviously is a critical aspect that guarantees all of the rights we're talking about. and the democratic process itself, meaning uh the fact that people can elect their representatives to go to this constitutional assembly to
[00:10:38] debate the issues of what the next system could look like and what it laws should be ratified by the people which would bring us to the election of the first parliament of this new democracy and of course the election of the first government of such democracy at which point the transitional government hands over power to the elected uh representative of the people in the future government. That's pretty much
[00:11:01] the the the the direction that we hope to manage this transition and I'm playing a role in bringing about this transition with a very well-crafted plan that is in detail explaining particularly focusing on the first 100 days. I created an organization called IP which which is Iran prosperity project but it first focus is the first 100 days. How we immediately stabilize the situation in Iran. How can we maximize the remaining elements that
[00:11:28] will join with us to be able to survive regime change and have a place in the future? These are the first components and then we move forward with the plan. Two quick questions. Under no circumstances, would that be a monarchy? Uh I think uh is a question everybody has for you because you're the prince. This is a democracy. We don't have princes in democracies. And then number two, what do you ideally see as your
[00:11:52] role in the transition? And then would you like to have the opportunity to run for president and to lead the country out of this horrific nightmare of 47 years? >> My focus is on the process, not the outcome. And in as a neutral arbiter, I'm not taking sides with one form versus the other. That's for the people of Iran to choose. And I think the world has seen successful models in both a republican system and a monarchic
[00:12:20] system. examples uh a republic that you have like in India or like in Israel or in France or the United States are not exactly the same but that's under the republican structure. In terms of parliamentary monarchies we have the example of Japan, Sweden, Spain, other countries. So I don't think that necessarily you can equate democracy with one outcome in particular. It could be both models that people can emulate.
[00:12:47] So at the end of the day, you know, again, uh it's not for me to choose the outcome. I'm here to be a bridge towards that outcome. That's the function of a transitional leader, not to run for office or not to have an aim for personal uh position or power or authority, but to be the element that unites the country towards a common purpose and allow the nation to decide what is their preferred system. That's what elections and free elections should
[00:13:12] be all about. and the ballot box is the only means to measure uh people's uh opinion and the majority will decide on that and that's the process that I'm in business to bring about. What do you believe the people of Iran want and in that monarchy subset there are the Gulf monarchies uh the kingdom UAE Qatar they are obviously distinctly different than a parliamentary you know system. So I assume you wouldn't want to see that. What do you
[00:13:45] think the people of Iran will vote for? >> Well, just what you said. I mean, we a democratic system clearly uh outlines how it should be and and how it should not. Uh I mean, if you want to look at the closest monarchy to the United States, technically speaking, is Canada. And you know, if you want to look it that way, and I think Canadians are quite happy with a democracy that they enjoy. And again, we have very good
[00:14:10] models of republic. Case in point, the United States. At the end of the day, as I said, it's for the Iranian people to determine what would be in their best interest. Having looked this time, unlike what happened, by the way, 50 years ago, nobody had a clear idea what Kmeni was suggesting in terms of this as they call it or the tutilage of the supreme leader. By the time he took over and power was established, it was too
[00:14:38] late. And since then, we've been hostages to this regime. This time, in full transparency, the Iranian people ought to have a clear idea of different models presented to them. And on that basis, having understood every aspect of what it could be, then they make their choice. This is a process that should be totally transparent with enough time for debating different ideas. And again, as I said, let the democratic process
[00:15:02] unfold and let the people vote in majority. What is their final uh choice? I'm not here to determine an outcome. Again, I stress my role here is to manage this transition and create an opportunity that people have been deprived of for half a century to finally have a say as to what they would like to have for themselves in terms of sovereignty and determining their own future democratically. Final question, and I'll get into a bunch of details
[00:15:29] with you, Shervin, uh, as to the plan, which I know you're helping construct, and I'm assuming you'll help execute on. Trump says he's going to pick the next leader. Trump says a lot of things. He says them sometimes in a provocative uh, way, but he said he's not sure how you would play within your own country. There's obviously people holding up your picture. There are people who are maybe vying uh to take control of this from
[00:15:54] the previous administration. Are you in touch with President Trump and what's your relationship with him today? What's your best plea to him or your argument to him to work with you? >> Look, uh there's nothing hidden in the agenda. Everything is transparent and I've been communicating with the administration by uh Steve Witkov who announced it publicly. That's was our channel to President Trump and of course
[00:16:21] on the other side in the legislation with members of Congress, senators and Congress people to understand a little bit from the American prism what it is that we are proposing here. I don't think that President Trump or any other leader in this world would presume that it is up to them to determine who should be the next leader in Iran. I'm sure as democracies they respect the right for people to make that choice and as
[00:16:45] western democracies it should be going without saying that they would believe that the the right to choose the future leaders is only up to the Iranian people. If the intention is to assist that process if the intent is to support the Iranian people in their democratic aspiration you provide them with the help but the choice should be theirs. That has been my position and I don't think there's a disagreement on that
[00:17:10] whether it is with President Trump or other world leaders that I've also talked to about this matter. >> As I let you go, what should the American people know about the spirit, the culture, and the people of Iran, including the people who fled in 1979 like you and your family? >> Well, I I know many Americans who have many Iranian friends. As a matter of fact, if you just look at the Iranian diaspora in the United States alone, you
[00:17:36] will see how much uh interaction there is between Iranians who are now Iranianameans, if you will, many of them, and the kind of relationship they have built with their American counterpart. Many people have uh connections via marriages. Many people have connections through business affiliations. Many people have worked with Iranians. Many of the high-tech companies including Silicon Valley employ so many Iranians or they are