[00:33:52] $183 million. Yeah, but when you look at the regulatory overhang of some of these things, Basel 1, Basel 2, you have all of these frameworks and then as a result, all these organizations that are running around trying to help you administer this complexity, all it does is just lower economic activity in the end. Well, and and but it's I know you all talk about incentives a lot. Back to incentives. What's a regul regulator's
[00:34:17] incentive just to keep like keep tightening the corset? They don't care about growth. They they don't care about the uh common sense. Turn off turn off every risk. It's their job. If you had to create a metric then to say, okay, here's how we're going to measure this undoing of the financial corset. Is it sort of the lending velocity by private lenders so that the private releveraging can occur? Is that a good way to think
[00:34:44] about or is rates a way to think about it? Well, it it doesn't have to be rates, but if if we do all the things I was just talking about, if we deregulate, if we have cheap energy, the I if we shed excess labor from the government, if we get government spending down, then rates inflation should come down, rates should come down. Yeah. Uh but the on the question of how are we going to measure it? I I don't have any problem with private
[00:35:13] credit. Yeah. Like I I actually think it's exciting the dynamic. It's dynamic. It meets the business where it is. Yeah. I agree. And the the strength of the US financial system is the depth and now the breadth. But you you could see that what's happened that so much lending is being pushed outside the regulated banking system. That tells you it's overregulated. Yeah. Right. So now um once we so one test will be
[00:35:44] how has bank lending especially small regional small banks community banks that come undone and you these small banks the small banks and community banks they're 70% of a loans they're 40% of small business loans and that that's one of the reasons Main Street's been stifled. So can you talk about then how you will work with the Fed in sort of the change of all of this financial you need to and do you need to work with
[00:36:13] Congress too to make these changes and also just generally maybe your thoughts on just the Fed in this process of helper foe like where where do they stand? Well the the Fed I 100% support the Fed's autonomy in monetary policy. Yeah. I don't agree with it all the time, but right that how it is. It's how it is. It's how it is. And um so and and I've said I won't comment on perspective policy. I can talk about their mistakes in the past
[00:36:46] which have been numerous. But I I think like like with with with any system as as it expands beyond sort of the core uh I I actually think that some of the things they've done in regulation some of the things they've done kind of climate and DEI some of the things may maybe even non-standard monetary policy uh threatens their independence and I want them to stay strong robust and independent on monetary policy on
[00:37:18] regulation. I I think that they have they have been much too harsh on especially the smaller smaller banks, medium banks. U so there are three main bank regulators. There's the Fed off office of control of the currency OC and the FDIC and then there other regulators the SEC CFTC but the banking regulators at the federal level are those three. here at Treasury, we have something called FSOC and financial stability oversight
[00:37:55] council and um I chair that and via that the president's working group uh which is another convening mechanism that I I plan to just keep pushing for you know safe sound and smart deregulation like why are we doing this why are we doing that and you again that there's a capital charge to banks for buying treasury bills. Totally. So I I actually think there's a chance that if we take it's it's called the supplementary
[00:38:28] leverage ratio. If we take that away, it's it becomes a binding constraint on banks. We might actually pull Treasury bill yields down by 30 to 70 basis points. Every basis point is a billion dollars a year. Can we talk about that for a second? So I think and I' I've said this for a year probably, but the one of the biggest mistakes that I think Janet Yellen affected was this continued issuance of money on the short end of the curve to
[00:39:03] finance these deficits which gives you you inherit an incredibly difficult challenge. I think over the next nine months I think there's like nine or 10 trillion that has to get refinanced. Do you want to talk about that? Yeah. Look, I I I thought that it that when rates were low, you're supposed to term out rates. Exactly. And in instead the the Treasury for the past few years has pulled rates in. And I think part of
[00:39:30] that was to keep rates lower that they they changed the issuance schedule when rates move back up towards 5%. I I um have maintained that policy, but I'm maintaining it because let's go back to David's question of when when are you going when are we going to see the results from this the getting the government spending under control and I don't think the markets recognize it yet. Yeah. Like like you know again if we do they don't
[00:40:05] they're not sure what to believe. I mean, we hear this commentary a lot like what do you really what we people there's just a lot of uncertainty. There's a big spectrum of opinions there. Yeah. Like like the the central value tendency, you're right. The central value tendency like what's the center of it because the the range of outcomes is so so broad and you know like we know we know there's a problem there. We know there's waste, fraud, and
[00:40:32] abuse. Quantify it. Quantify it. So I I think as we are more able to quantify it, we will get credit for it. So let me go back. So outside of waste, fraud and abuse as it's termed, I want to go back to the question I asked earlier. How much do does this administration need Congress to act to get to 3 to 3 12% deficit to GDP? And how what's your read on the Congress and how willing and able they are to take the action that's
[00:41:03] needed here? Yeah, I I I think there are a lot of headlines especially after the CR about the Democrats being in disarray and media like media likes to write about disarray. I I think the under or untold story here is Republicans have for a change actually been very disciplined that and I think a lot of that President Trump is kind of shephering the party, shephering the movement because imagine he said, "Oh,
[00:41:34] that Mike Johnson will never get reconciliation instructions out of he's got such a slim majority." Well, he did it. He did it. Yeah. That he'll never be able to pass a clean CR. He did it. He did it. So, let's see what happens with the budget. So, we need Congress to be our partners on the budget. They're very engaged, the House and the Senate, that everybody recognizes that if we don't get this done, it's going to be the
[00:42:05] biggest, it's past fail. It's the biggest tax hike in history. Where does Doge come in? Well, Doge, that's the the cost cutting and it's the first time we've really ever had business people looking at it. The this Clinton Gore Commission that we hear a lot of like or hear a lot about. I I think it was a bunch of business school professors and but here you've got real CEOs. You got Lutnik, you got Bergam, you got Elon. I mean, this
[00:42:34] cabinet is stock full of experienced operators that can go in and identify where there's an opportunity for saving the taxpayers money and still getting the results. Well, it's that and we we had this crypto council meeting the other day and I was sitting as looking it was myself, Secretary Lutnik, and Kelly Laughler. Everybody was a market person. like forget business like we and but with Doge that I am completely aligned with what Elon's
[00:43:08] doing and everyone says, "Well, do you have to do it so fast? You have to do it." I I like I said, I've only been in in this business for 7 weeks. I've only been in DC for 8 weeks. But the thing I can tell you is if you don't move fast, the vested interest will weigh you down. like the the the quicksand will come up or the claws get the claw. Yeah. Everybody's got lobbyists. Everybody's got I mean, think about it. Within a 10
[00:43:39] 10 mile radius of here, 25% of the GDP of the US pulsates through here. Pulsates every day. Yeah. And everybody wants to just skim a little. I I said to uh e Elon and we were in a meeting and I said, "You know, people are mad at you cuz you're moving their cheese." And he goes, "It's not their cheese. It's the American people's cheese." 100%. Every dollar spent goes into someone's pocket and that person's going to fight tooth
[00:44:06] and nail to get that dollar to keep flowing into their pocket. And it's a it's a it's a very like there is no winning in Elon's role. There's every single time he takes action there are people that are going to come after him that are going to come after the administration. There's no situ and and obviously gets recast reclassified in the media as being something different but there's nothing but downside as you
[00:44:31] make these changes to individual organizations that participate and then it takes a while for the flow of that money to find its way or those individuals to find their way back into the productive private economy. That's where I think there's a big gap and a big challenge in the perception of the actions that are going on with the changes right now is everyone sees the cuts, but they don't see the benefits. And that's nine months, 12 months, 15
[00:44:53] months down the road. And that's a really hard thing to reconcile for most. Yeah. And I I'd say there are a couple of things, too, is one like everyone's hearing cuts and they think they're government services. That's right. That's right. And they're not. I I keep saying it's the Department of Government efficiency, not government extinction, not government elimination. And can we make it run much better with fewer
[00:45:19] people with fewer costs? And you I don't want to demonize any of these federal employees cuz I tell you in this building, I've been so impressed with the quality of the the people. I I would have hired them in my private firm. They are great public servants. I need you to stay for the weekend. and I need a 25page memo in 72 hours that super high quality. I I actually think what when when all this is done there there will have been two big
[00:45:50] savings. One will been on these contractors. Sure. Which totally we were just talking about this. We were with Elon just now with an incredible stat. He said I'm not going to name the firm so that I don't want to but he said this one organization gets 98% of their revenue from it was in the newspaper so we can say it. It's booze Allen. We were talking about this and then but then we were going through the numbers
[00:46:11] on the other firms and it's just the whole thing. What kind of risk management is that by the way? Yeah. Yeah, but but it tells you that that they didn't manage the risk. That's right. Tells you how entrenched they believe they were and how good it is for them. And how good it is. You're absolutely right. And and the way the way the grift works, you can only have six-month contracts, but there are people who have had 40 six-month
[00:46:35] contracts. Incredible. Like they've been in situ for 20 years. Incredible. And it's this whole I'm so happy there is transparency and visibility into this. If for nothing else the administration providing this level of insight and data I think is so important for taxpayers and individuals in this country to see to recognize and importantly to understand just how much of this grift is going on. It's frightening and I'm
[00:47:02] glad that it's like being addressed and and the American people can see if they want it. So this is what I was going to ask you. Let's just say that some somehow the Borg slows this whole thing down. You know what people say is that the conventionalism well then the only place to look will be things like entitlements. Good question. Yeah. Do you do you think that that's true? Well, I I I think that now that the cat's out of
[00:47:31] the bag that the American people are are not going to stay with this is that you may maybe again here may maybe in the Northeast Corridor um there's some push back, but when I've seen the polling data and the rest of the country does not want this to stop and this administration's not gonna stop. Yeah. the courts, they're trying to throw sand in the gears with the courts and how some judge can say, "Oh, all these
[00:48:03] workers have to come back in." And but I I also think we've moved really quickly now. I think when we start putting out some of the ane anecdotes and the the messages and talk about what's happening, like I I'll talk about it. I I'll be talking about it soon, but there there's one very large department that everybody deals with on April 15th that their help desk is fully staffed 24/7, 365 days a year. They have the same
[00:48:35] number of people on Christmas Eve as they have on April 14th. Wow. This is this this, by the way, is something that I've seen being a lightning rod. Theoretically, every dollar you spend on the IRS, you get $3 back or whatever it is. That's not necessarily true. Like I just want to be clear that there's you can still get all your tax revenue at the federal level, but you don't need to waste. Well, look, I I mean I'd be the
[00:48:59] ultimate chump if I said, "Oh, we're going to cut spending." Yeah. But I also cut revenues with with the IRS, which Treasury controls. My my three goals are very simple. Revenue enhancement, privacy, and customer service. Totally. You know, there's a there's a body of knowledge that says if we just fed in, and by the way, four or five of these companies can do this. Now, if we just fed in this entire federal tax code into
[00:49:27] these AI models, what you can give to Americans is a very guaranteed, resolute ability to file taxes with the assurance that there is no waste, fraud, and abuse. And now all of a sudden, you take this incredible weight off of people's shoulders. Um you know sometimes it is said that you get audited for almost political reasons. It seems like you know uh people that not almost we have a big we we we had a big announcement on
[00:49:55] Tuesday and we brought in the 200 Biden whistleblowers who they uh have a lot to say about who gets audited, who doesn't. They're going to be sitting in this building working on IRS the matters and understanding exactly how these audits get triggered, how these political witch hunts happen and trying to the change the ethos of the building. And again, 99% of the people at the IRS are good people. It's just like all these other
[00:50:30] agencies where they're they're bad folks. But to your point, this is where technology can create um very reliable guard rails for the American citizen where it's like, okay, well, if this model says I owe $1,000 in tax, this is it. I'm not trying to change anything. I've fed it all the software first and you just know. Let me go back to entitlements. Um I talked last week on our podcast about social security. Mhm. Social
[00:50:58] Security has a $2.7 trillion balance, which is just a basically a Treasury bond that's owed that they can't trade out of. Should Social Security have invested in the S&P or invested in equities? And why don't we turn Social Security into a sovereign wealth fund and invest it for the benefit of all Americans going forward? Yeah, I I I think there there's the optimal, then there's the possible. George W. Bush tried to
[00:51:28] privatize social security and you I I saw your your numbers listened to your numbers going way back 1971 1971 and with 15 16 trillion that we'd have I I don't know what the numbers are since W tried it. Yeah, they'd be substantial. We we wouldn't be thinking about a problem in a few years. But I think now you got to play the hand you're dealt. I think we are dealt the social security uh hand. And I think maybe we could
[00:52:00] re-engineer it if we could create the sovereign wealth fund and have that on the other side. There are a lot of philanthropists who are looking at baby bonds. So if you can create a some kind of an investment account for newborns then that would run on a parallel track to social security. So that would be compounding. The other thing would be a safety net. Yeah. But it's still sitting in treasuries on the other side. Y and
[00:52:31] that's where there's an opportunity not just to drive up returns but participate in the American economy and give all Americans today the ability to know that they have some participation in the American economy rather than having their retirement funds being sitting as a loan to the federal government for spending which I think could be a big dramatic change. I don't know if they need to be independent but I I I would I
[00:52:52] think it's a it's a real opportunity for us. Are you are you excited by the idea of the sovereign wealth fund? I I am and I'm excited by the idea like this is pres President Trump. Everything he does isn't in a straight line, but I guarantee he has a destination in mind. And the idea that he's going to be the first president in generations who is going to he wants to create assets for the American people, not just debt.
[00:53:24] Yeah. Yeah. So he wants to take the debt down. And then this idea of assets, there was a lot of talk about this economic deal we're going to do with Ukraine. That would have gone in the sovereign wealth fund, right? Yeah. Government has big stake in Fanny May and Freddy Mack. Yeah. When it comes out of conservatorship, where does that go? Where where does that go? As you mentioned, Doug Doug Bergam did great work when he was