[01:08:00] in the building code? Well, changes in the building code, changes in brush cutting, right? And material choices. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. Makes sense. Great. So, I I think there's a lot if we And obviously energy I mean just getting back to affordability, right? Energy costs come down. I took the words out of my mouth. No, no, no, no. But I mean energy costs are energy costs, but then there's also the for food, the
[01:08:24] transportation cost of getting it to the to the grocery store, everything that that's made out of petroleum products. So I I think we we can do that. And um you know, I think there's a lot to do. Yeah. And it shouldn't be too hard. So we're actually we should probably be announcing it in about 10 days. We're going to have an affordabil affordability zar, but it's going to be someone with a lot of experience in
[01:08:51] supply chains figuring out what are a lot of the quick fixes we can do because back to the question, what really has people anxious, inflation for now is actually pretty quiet in. And um but the affordability has gotten so away from everyone that how can we bring that down? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. For all our friends at home who talk a lot about the conversation about climate change and carbon-f free. I think one of
[01:09:32] the things that I always point out to people is the cheapest way of driving energy production in this country is that there's a low carbon or carbon-f free alternative that's out there that's actually cheaper than standing up new new plants. Um, and there's an acceleration. I don't know how much this administration thinks about that relationship. But it seems to me like if we can unlock energy production, costs
[01:09:53] come down and this economy transitions. Well, it transitions and I think it's also not being dogmatic. Like I I I saw what the Biden administration did with EVs. I I have an EV. I can't wait for it to come off lease and but also have a hybrid and I think I fill it up maybe three times a year. Totally. But this administration had a jihad on hybrids because there it it they didn't pass the purity test. So they were picking winners and losers in
[01:10:23] a way that a lot of us were left scratching our heads. Yeah. Yep. And cheap I think cheap energy solves a lot of problems. I I I think it'll a and uh cheap energy is energy security too 100%. Cuz that that's why Europe's kind of over a barrel literally. And it's a it's why the Russian war machine hasn't again literally run out of gas. And to the extent that we believe we're in an existential arms race for technical
[01:10:53] supremacy, it's really on one dimension, which is AI. And that is so needy of energy. So if we don't pull all of these issues together and realize that we need to basically take the incremental cost to zero, whatever we do, we need to create the incentives and package it all together. I mean, we can't we can't compete manufacturing as without energy without we certainly can't compete without energy. Yep. Yeah.
[01:11:15] I mean, we're we're we're not going to crush labor like China and some other countries have done. So, we got to crush the energy price. Right. Exactly. Right. And when you're in the Oval, what are the truths and misconceptions of the president? Meaning on the outside and what people know or don't know. Oh, how about this? I we we had a lot of um foreign leaders come in and I I knew someone in in the in one of their
[01:11:44] entouragees. I won't tell you which one, but afterwards he comes up to me, he goes, "Holy crap." He goes, "He's really smart. President Trump has perfect recollection because he was talking about something that had happened in that country 30 years ago and he said and he really So the President Trump listens. He is judicious. He is just taking it all in. He likes to see how people react. Um it it's just incredible executive
[01:12:12] skills. Uh yeah, and the other thing too that he he's tough, but I went in and I showed him, we were talking about something the other day and I said, "Well, you know, this is going to cause some layoffs." He goes, "Well, let let's try to fix it." Yeah. Yeah, let's try to fix it. So, I I always say he really regards himself as the mayor of America, right? 330 million people. He wants to be personable to everyone and he cares
[01:12:43] deeply about all of them and he doesn't care whether you're Elon Musk or the the guy cutting the rose garden, but you're his constituent. Great. Well, Scott, thank you so much for taking the time. This has been a wonderful a pleasure and we really appreciate the insight. Yeah. And thanks for the service and thanks for doing the role. Good. Thanks. Appreciate it. Thanks. [Music] Thanks. I'm going all in.