[00:50:58] Security has a $2.7 trillion balance, which is just a basically a Treasury bond that's owed that they can't trade out of. Should Social Security have invested in the S&P or invested in equities? And why don't we turn Social Security into a sovereign wealth fund and invest it for the benefit of all Americans going forward? Yeah, I I I think there there's the optimal, then there's the possible. George W. Bush tried to
[00:51:28] privatize social security and you I I saw your your numbers listened to your numbers going way back 1971 1971 and with 15 16 trillion that we'd have I I don't know what the numbers are since W tried it. Yeah, they'd be substantial. We we wouldn't be thinking about a problem in a few years. But I think now you got to play the hand you're dealt. I think we are dealt the social security uh hand. And I think maybe we could
[00:52:00] re-engineer it if we could create the sovereign wealth fund and have that on the other side. There are a lot of philanthropists who are looking at baby bonds. So if you can create a some kind of an investment account for newborns then that would run on a parallel track to social security. So that would be compounding. The other thing would be a safety net. Yeah. But it's still sitting in treasuries on the other side. Y and
[00:52:31] that's where there's an opportunity not just to drive up returns but participate in the American economy and give all Americans today the ability to know that they have some participation in the American economy rather than having their retirement funds being sitting as a loan to the federal government for spending which I think could be a big dramatic change. I don't know if they need to be independent but I I I would I
[00:52:52] think it's a it's a real opportunity for us. Are you are you excited by the idea of the sovereign wealth fund? I I am and I'm excited by the idea like this is pres President Trump. Everything he does isn't in a straight line, but I guarantee he has a destination in mind. And the idea that he's going to be the first president in generations who is going to he wants to create assets for the American people, not just debt.
[00:53:24] Yeah. Yeah. So he wants to take the debt down. And then this idea of assets, there was a lot of talk about this economic deal we're going to do with Ukraine. That would have gone in the sovereign wealth fund, right? Yeah. Government has big stake in Fanny May and Freddy Mack. Yeah. When it comes out of conservatorship, where does that go? Where where does that go? As you mentioned, Doug Doug Bergam did great work when he was
[00:53:52] governor of North Dakota. North Dakota has the equivalent of two state sovereign wealth funds and for I don't know are they 7 8 900,000 people. I think they had $25 billion, right? And Alaska permanent the Alaska permanent but all all that's from the natural resource money going in. So to the extent we start the other day when the sovereign wealth fund was announced, President Trump surprised me in the oval and said,
[00:54:21] "Could you make a few remarks?" And I said, "Well, we're we're going to we're going to mo we're going to mobilize the asset side of the balance sheet." And all the gold books said he's going to re he's going to revalue the gold. I I can say today we're not revaling the gold, but what we are going to do is Doug Bergam at Interior, every other department head is looking for the assets that we can mobilize. So if if we
[00:54:45] have energy leases, federal government own back to the housing shortage. Federal government owns a lot of land in downtown urban areas. Can we or in suburban adjacent things in in Nevada and Utah, can we use that land? Yeah. Do you see a wave of privatizations as a way to sort of both pay down the deficits and debts and also just to that? That's important to me. Like why put in a sovereign wealth fund versus
[00:55:11] pay down the debt? Help help kind of do the finance math for us on Oh, could you think you get a higher return, right? Well, anything anything that beats our current return, our current interest rate. Yeah. I mean, not not that I'm keeping score, not that I watch it closely, but the 10-year Treasury today is 428. 428. Yeah. So, um, it's responding well. Can can we can can we do better Yeah. than four can we do
[00:55:36] better than 428? And I think with this group and this cabinet and if we can put in right right now, we're working on the the study group for the sovereign wealth fund and we want to do best practices. We're talking to people around the world. We're talking to investment people. Uh we're talking to uh a lot of the other big sovereign uh funds and we're going to do best practices and we want this to be a legacy event. Totally.
[00:56:04] Dan Lo made this comment that the Australian superanuation they've got 30 managers and they have as much in their on their balance sheet today in their fund than Social Security does about $3 trillion and they have 7% of our population. Yeah. No, it's incredible. It's incredible. It's incredible. And I was with one of the Middle Eastern funds and you know, I said something about oil revenue. We haven't had an an injection
[00:56:31] into the fund in 20 years. Why was this such a miss for America? What happened in the United States? Was that we took every excess dollar we had and we invested it in the future? We bought in we built infrastructure. What happened that kept us out of this model where others were so successful and clearly have now gotten ahead of us and their their people have a greater kind of safety net than we do. Yeah. I I I think
[00:56:56] it it was just this idea of it it was supposed to be a safety net, not some kind of prosperity ramp. The old age and survivors disability insurance fund. That's what it's called, right? Under social security. you uh you've mentioned cheap energy as a critical part of this holistic program I think three times now. Where do we make mistakes in that path where energy gets out of control? What what do we need to
[00:57:23] do to make sure that energy actually the the incremental cost of the electron basically goes to zero? Well, I I think the biggest challenge we're having right now is trying to get private sector to lock in for some things that might not have a payoff for 5 10 years and how do we avoid student body left, student body right with administrations coming and going. So we're we're trying we're we're working on well this is an incredibly
[00:57:51] nuanced and I think an important point because we have this very vibrant as you know tax equity and transferability market that allows a lot of these organizations to make these five and 10 year investment cases and you know for all the issues with the IRA of which there are many I think the one narrow aspect that it did was um it calmed the markets about the future of those specific ITC credits and transferability
[00:58:18] and And it's a critical thing because there was a report, you probably saw it, but you know, FK said 90 plus% of our incremental electrons as of December were from sources that were leveraging these ITC credits and that transferability. So to your point, we have this very delicate balancing act of making sure we but but there there's the the tax side, but then the regulatory side with with fossil, it's tougher
[00:58:43] because it crosses a lot of state lines. There's a lot more permitting, right? a lot less permitting for solar farms, for wind, for geothermal. Yeah. Yeah. And nuclear. Uh nuclear is going to be a big part of it, but it it's not going to happen tomorrow. We got to fix the supply chain and the regulatory. Well, we got to fix the supply chain. We got to fix the regulatory. Um I we've got to decide which model are
[00:59:11] we going to go with. And you know, I I'm told that you you two probably know more about nuclear than I do, but he loves it. I hate it. Okay. Well, no, I don't hate it. I mean, I I like I like nuclear. I just think it's 10 years away. He's a loser. Don't listen to him. Yeah. He doesn't really It's just not an investable thing for the next but it's important because the question is when it becomes one, that's when we know we've fixed the problem.
[00:59:34] But but but to to the point that it's not investable, that's where the government needs to step. Absolutely. I 100% agree with you like we that's where we have to bridge to to the technology we have to do the time arbitrage and also I'm told especially with the smaller plants that you that you need to cluster them and you got to find somebody who wants to cluster them and all that. And um let me ask you one more
[01:00:03] question as we kind of get to the end, but uh what's been the most surprising thing for you in this role since you've um since you've been in office? Uh the national security aspect that I I would say 40 50% of my day. uh Treasury does a lot of national security work whe whether it's cifhious in terms of uh foreigners who want to buy US assets whether it's sanctions whether it's OFAC anti-money laundering we we've just
[01:00:35] designated the Mexican cartels as foreign terrorist organizations we President Trump over the weekend launched a very aggressive strike on missile strike on the Houthi assets. Well, underneath that, we had already been working for several weeks on their bank accounts. I see. So, or anyone who is adjacent to them, the Iranians supply the Houthis with the their ecosystem. Previous to my getting here, uh, Treasury had disrupted the ecosystem
[01:01:14] so much that, uh, the Iranians used to hand them cash. Now they're just handing them here, take take this oil tanker and try to sell it, right? So like there there is the ability to to break that down. When you go home and you're talking to your kids, you're talking to your husband and you're like, "This was so cool." There must be these moments where you're like, "This was so cool. Do you have any anecdotes
[01:01:41] that you you're comfortable sharing where you're just like this is like I can't believe I'm doing this job? Uh well uh there have been several but a a good example my family was actually there because after the inauguration I I asked President Trump may I bring my family in say hello get a photo and we're we're sitting in the oval. So, it's myself, my 11year-old daughter, uh my spouse, 15-year-old son, and the
[01:02:09] President Trump's having a great conversation with them. And and then he said, "Oh, Scott, while you're here, let me call in these other two people and we need to discuss this." So, they actually got to see government being done live. So, you there there's that. Um, I I you know, I I have to say I I think the the moment with um President Trump, Vice President Vance, President Zalinski was kind of a once in a-lifetime thing in
[01:02:43] the Oval Office. I hope it's once in a lifetime. And they um but you know, I I was sitting there kind of in the front row of history. I I vice president, Secretary Rubio, myself on the sofa and watching President Zullinsky do what I thought was the the biggest diplomatic own goal in history. Yeah. Yeah. I think you said it very well in in TV afterwards. It really really was based on and you you said because you were there, you tried to
[01:03:13] negotiate with him in Kev. It was a very escalated I think you use the word escalated or high high decibel conversation. High decel. Yes. Yeah. So, but it kind of my my job for 35 years was to be outside the room, try to put my ear to the door, maybe lift myself over the transom, figure out what the leaders needed to do, were going to do, and then how it would affect the markets. And now it it's fantastic and amazing and
[01:03:46] stimulating and a little scary being the person in the room who has to what should we do? What can we do? How's it going to affect the markets? How's it going to affect the real economy that what what's it going to do to working people in America? So, how do we fix affordability? um we're just going to have to go through and where where's the problem? What's the solution in terms of like are are the insurance markets broken, right? What
[01:04:20] can we do there? There's been no in I I've been involved in the house building business. There's been no technological change in house building in 50 years, maybe 60. Some of the building codes go all the way back to the Chicago fire, right? So, what can we do that the way we categorize housing, it's stickuilt or modular? Mhm. Is there something in the middle prefab? Because the more that comes out of a factory, the more that is
[01:04:53] standardized that neighborhoods from DC, from DC to Bethesda to PTOAC to like you could be in contiguous neighborhoods and if they're different municipalities, they'd all have different building codes. Not zoning, building. Yeah. And why is that? Like it they're adjacent. Why do the houses have to be? So, is there some kind of window guidance that the federal government can give in terms of the more that comes out of the
[01:05:25] factory, the cheaper it'll be, the faster we can make it, things like that. Is there pressure that you could apply or influence you can apply? One of the things you mentioned earlier was just, you know, take San Francisco. There's an artificial constraint that's created by the zoning paradigm and it's not clear how you unlock that. you know, maybe is it up to private citizens to sort of like have regime change at the local
[01:05:47] level? Um, but how do we sort of unclog that part of it to marry up with this kind of stuff? Because it would be great if you could just build up in many places. Yeah. Well, I I I think there are a lot of things where you can look around and find what's interesting that some what's something that's interesting that's being done somewhere. So, I I lived in Greenwich, Connecticut for a while. may maybe the richest suburb in America. There's a ton
[01:06:15] of multifamily there. Very expensive, very nice multifamily. There's some affordable housing, but Greenwich is not all 10 acres and a horse farm. The state of Connecticut has put in a I guess it's a law that every municipality has to allocate 10% of vacant land to multifamily. And if the zoning board won't give you a hearing, you as a developer, you as a nonprofit for housing can go over the top and go to Hartford and then Hartford will give you
[01:06:58] the authority. Well, no, no town wants the state doing on their behalf. So now the towns negotiate. Yeah. So, like I I think that there are a lot of things that that can be done again on on insurance. Is there something that I I've been thinking about is there something the federal government could do for California where we come in everyone's paying homeowners insurance then there's reinsurance on top of that.
[01:07:29] Then I think the California reinsurance companies called Fair. Yeah. On top of that. So it's a well it's a separate plan but yeah yeah but but it it's it's a you're stack you're stacking it. So is there something we could do where you put another layer of private money in there and then the federal government is the fifth risk trunch right? But if the federal government comes in can we mandate down here proper hygiene changes
[01:08:00] in the building code? Well, changes in the building code, changes in brush cutting, right? And material choices. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. Makes sense. Great. So, I I think there's a lot if we And obviously energy I mean just getting back to affordability, right? Energy costs come down. I took the words out of my mouth. No, no, no, no. But I mean energy costs are energy costs, but then there's also the for food, the
[01:08:24] transportation cost of getting it to the to the grocery store, everything that that's made out of petroleum products. So I I think we we can do that. And um you know, I think there's a lot to do. Yeah. And it shouldn't be too hard. So we're actually we should probably be announcing it in about 10 days. We're going to have an affordabil affordability zar, but it's going to be someone with a lot of experience in
[01:08:51] supply chains figuring out what are a lot of the quick fixes we can do because back to the question, what really has people anxious, inflation for now is actually pretty quiet in. And um but the affordability has gotten so away from everyone that how can we bring that down? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. For all our friends at home who talk a lot about the conversation about climate change and carbon-f free. I think one of
[01:09:32] the things that I always point out to people is the cheapest way of driving energy production in this country is that there's a low carbon or carbon-f free alternative that's out there that's actually cheaper than standing up new new plants. Um, and there's an acceleration. I don't know how much this administration thinks about that relationship. But it seems to me like if we can unlock energy production, costs
[01:09:53] come down and this economy transitions. Well, it transitions and I think it's also not being dogmatic. Like I I I saw what the Biden administration did with EVs. I I have an EV. I can't wait for it to come off lease and but also have a hybrid and I think I fill it up maybe three times a year. Totally. But this administration had a jihad on hybrids because there it it they didn't pass the purity test. So they were picking winners and losers in
[01:10:23] a way that a lot of us were left scratching our heads. Yeah. Yep. And cheap I think cheap energy solves a lot of problems. I I I think it'll a and uh cheap energy is energy security too 100%. Cuz that that's why Europe's kind of over a barrel literally. And it's a it's why the Russian war machine hasn't again literally run out of gas. And to the extent that we believe we're in an existential arms race for technical