[00:00:00] Okay, we are here in Washington DC in front of the White House having spent the afternoon with our friend David Saxs, our friend Elon Musk and others. We are here to learn about the debt, the deficit, what's going on in DC. And we have an incredible interview lined up with Scott Bessant, Treasury Secretary of the United States. It was amazing and it's been an amazing afternoon and we're really looking forward to it. It was
[00:00:24] amazing. Well, this is the pre the intro to the video. It will be amazing. It's not the pre. Let's just What the We're going to pretend it's the pre. It was amazing. It It will be incredible. It was incredible. But how cool is the White House? And here's a bell. I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure the bell I cannot even describe to you the day we had running around. It's incredible. Running around room to room in the White
[00:00:48] House. One of the best days of my life. It was one of the best days of my life. It was incredible. Incredible. I think this bell is probably pretty important. Can you guys get a shot of this bell? I don't know what it is, but it's really important. Yeah. The White House, the people to a one super kind, super open, super curious. I mean, did you felt it? I You felt accepted. Yeah, I felt But I got free soda. They have a soda machine
[00:01:10] where you can make any Coca-Cola flavor you want in the White House. It was pretty cool. I took some uh hummus. I wrapped it on Creeper's face. I punched him in. It was a cool afternoon. And uh this is what is this? The east wing of the White House. And we took a walk from the west wing all the way over to the east wing to the portico. And then we we snuck in. Well, we didn't sneak in. We walked in. And then we're walking around
[00:01:33] the east wing. We went to all of the private rooms. I got great photos. We'll we'll we'll slice him into this video. And then some secret service dude comes up and he's like, "What are you guys What are you doing here? This is the residence of the president. You have to get the out." He's like, "You need to go downstairs now." So, we got kicked the [ __ ] out. But it was an incredible um incredible tour. Super great. Yeah.
[00:01:51] Anyway, we're excited for this interview with Scott Bess and hope you enjoy it. All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crush your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. Pal Well, today's a really important day. We're joined by the 79th Secretary of
[00:02:17] the Treasury, Scott Bessant. And this is an opportunity that we wanted to take as part of a longer form way of explaining to people not just how the economy works but in a little bit more detail where are we in this moment in time where are we with deficits, tariffs, the budget, economic, monetary, fiscal policy. How do we make sure that we all understand the plan to make America great again? So Scott, thank you for joining us. Good.
[00:02:42] Thanks for having me. I actually want to start with let's go back in the way back machine. So, South Carolina, your father was a real estate developer. Tell us where the passion for finance came from. Uh, well, um, I don't know where finance in particular came from. As you mentioned, my dad was a real estate developer and he he was kind of boom bus kind of uh, guy. So, I think that's where my passion for risk management
[00:03:13] came from. But uh I I was I was very fortunate. Went to Yale. Wasn't sure what I wanted to do. N 1980 when I got there. Probably you all can imagine this, but uh there used to be these things called punch cards and we just gone the Yale computer system just gone from punch cards to screens. I was going to think of being a computer science major, maybe a journalist because people actually used to read newspapers. So
[00:03:39] punch cards and newspapers from the way back machine. Uh, and I um I I got an internship at just for an individual and he taught me the investment business really well. And I And who was that? His name is Jim Rogers. He's famous. He was George Soros's first partner. Uh he uh had just completed an around the world motorcycle trip and written a book called Investment Biker, right? and fa fascinating guy and um I did the
[00:04:17] investment business and I thought this is really what I like because it's quantitative so I get to use my quantitative skills but you're also constructing a narrative um and it's also like human emotions and you were trading equities bonds everything currencies uh well I started out with equities and I I did that for several years and then I actually ended up at Soros Fund Management. I worked for a fellow who's my mentor, Stan Draen
[00:04:46] Miller, who's incredible, but I I think he's on he's more than 40 years now. Never a down year. And you know, when you're sitting next to him, I think, what am I doing all day and notorious for going allin several times in his career? All in all, all in. And uh only when he's he's right. Yes. Well, I but he he is the best at changing his mind. That's right. Of anyone I've ever seen. So, Duck has that famous adage, invest
[00:05:14] then investigate. Well, he he has several and and I'm trying to get him to write a book because he has so many of these great things. Uh maybe you will press him. Um but invest investigate. It takes courage to be a pig. Right. Right. So uh and then I I was hooked on markets because again it was everything. It was quantitative, it was qualitative and it's real time. You get real- time feedback all the time. And you you're
[00:05:46] could have a long-term view, but then you're trying to gauge the short term against that. And you know, I I loved it. And uh for 35 years I've got into I did what's called macro investing. So uh eventually I was trading currencies, bonds, commodities, the equities, uh some credit and I got to travel around the world meeting leaders and trying to figure out what the next move was in policy. I think this is important
[00:06:19] because I've spoken with folks who um trade in macro and a big part of the the role of being a macro investor, macro trader, is really knowing where central bank action is going to be, really knowing how government bonds are going to move and spending time with economists, not just central, but around the world and learning a little bit about how capital is flowing all over the world. Is that kind of the right way
[00:06:43] to describe that role of being a macro investor just for folks? Yeah, you know, it's it's a lot of it's a lot of that. There's another great macro investor called Bruce Ker and he had this saying that he said, you know, I succeeded because I could imagine a different future and believe it could happen. So the key is to believe it could happen and then manage the risk. So you know could you imagine like what would happen
[00:07:12] if the iron curtain came down? What would happen? I mean you all do it as venture capitalists but like you know how could the world live in a different state. Okay. Well let's hold that idea and double click for us to 92. It's probably one of the most famous moments where the broader world at large metro trading. And this is really where you and Duck and Soros basically broke the back of the Bank of England. And it's
[00:07:45] really an interesting window into assessing all of these things. So can you give us the conditions on the ground at that moment and what new reality you saw for England? And then it would be great from there we'll contrast and compare to America today. Good. So uh it it's a great historical example and it also kind of brings in three dimensions. So I I was the analyst, Stan was the portfolio manager and then
[00:08:14] in a way George was the risk manager. Okay. So I I was running the the UK office. I was on the ground in the UK and I I had this light bulb go off and you know I thought kind of the fulcrum thought or like my differentiated view was that the UK had just had a big housing boom and UK mortgages at that time they didn't have long-term mortgages. They were all floating rates. So if the Bank of England raised rates
[00:08:42] on a Wednesday the your mortgage went up on a Friday. Yeah. uh the UK had hooked into something called the exchange rate mechanism. They had to balance versus the Deutsch mark. They had to stay within a band. Um I noticed that if they raise or I thought if they raised rates to try to stay in the band and protect the currency, it would be unsustainable because British homeowners would get bankrupted. Uh Stan's great uh feat of
[00:09:15] analysis was figuring out that gosh the these bands set up this incredible asymmetric bet because I can push them up against one side of the band and their mandate is just to push me back to the other side so we just lose two and a half%. And um you know Stan tells this great story of like telling George Soros, oh well you know here's what I want to do and he says he told him and George says well how much do you want to do? And he said
[00:09:50] probably 100% of the fund and he said Soros gave him this really sour look and he thought that he had said something wrong why wouldn't you do three times that deal? So uh but anyway it was um we pushed them against the the ban. the Bank of England, the British government uh had to buy this unlimited amount of pounds and they started raising interest rates and this was September of 1992 and uh you know eventually they just weren't able to
[00:10:26] sustain the the pressure from the high rates and came out and then the asymmetric riskreward was we made about 20 something% in a day. Yeah. Right. And back to what was really Stan's genius is I don't know if either of you play back gammon but in back gammon there's the move after the move and so Stan we'd made all that money and we were kind of euphoric okay now what because there's going to be the trade after the trade so
[00:10:55] we made that much in a day but then it was actually the trade after the trade and this isn't well publicized I think we made another 20% during the rest of the year. Wow. So in that moment, what you're really observing is that the real economy is somewhat dislocated, maybe meaningfully dislocated from the financial economy in your operating. And I think you've said this now many times and you've basically used the terminology the main street
[00:11:25] wall street dichotomy. How do you observe the moment in 2025, the maybe what rhymes with the early 90s or other periods where you've been trading actively? Well, look, I I I think it goes back to something that's unsustainable is unsustainable. And um one of the reasons I'm sitting here now is uh about 18 months ago, I went to see President Trump. I'd known the Trump family for 30 years. I'd never known the president
[00:11:59] that well, but to tell him that I want to get involved in the campaign because I was so alarmed with what the Biden administration was doing with the defic debt and deficit, endless stimulus, endless spending, endless spending, but endless spending when we were in like solid economic territory or not in a war. First time, first time ever. And I I thought it was very cynical because I I actually thought, well, we're going to spend
[00:12:30] spend spend and then there'll be no choice but to raise taxes. So you'd go into this equilibrium that you could just never get out of and you become kind of a European style social social democracy, you know, the malaise. And you know, I I also think that we're very cynical on immigration, right? Because if you take kind of the stated number 12 million, the president's number 22 million. I don't know what the truth is.
[00:12:57] Kind of lean toward the president. But it was, oh, we're going to let all these people cross the border. You can't ever make them. Problem's too big to make them go home. But I like to stay in my finance lane. So the finance lane was we're going to just go to the point of no return and kind of inflict these the progressive financial values on the country. There'll be no way out. Very meaningful wage suppression in that
[00:13:25] period and you had an equity market that was incredibly well bid just because the money supply was just always there. Well, it was always there and you had these distributional aspects because back to your question, Wall Street versus Main Street that it was driving me crazy when Vice President Harris said, "I'm going to fight for the middle class." And she'd eviscerated the middle class or or these policies,
[00:13:53] inadvertent, intentional, had eviscerated the middle class and really the bottom 50%. So you we're we're in this uh because purchasing power goes down, inflation went up. Well, per if you didn't have assets, right? So, uh that's really important. I think people don't understand this that if you had stocks, if you had assets, your assets inflated. Y but if you didn't, the cost of everything inflated, but you didn't
[00:14:19] have the ability to purchase because your wages don't go up. Yeah. And they not not only did inflation go up, but if you look uh Jason Trinard has this thing I think he calls it the everyman index and um so CPI went up about 22 during the period but the everyman index was up over 30 35%. Because the the bottom 25% the bottom 50% of wage earners have have a different basket than we do and it inflated much faster% used car prices
[00:14:53] around car insurance car insurance rent groceries and you like not not only is it unfair but it's just unstable and great civil civil issues societal issues and so yes but sorry as you guys got into looking at this I and I remembering and talking about this in the summer of 23 I think it was or 23. Yeah. And what was the point of view on what should have been done at that point in time and then how much farther did it
[00:15:27] go? How much longer did it last? Well, I I think what happened the the Democrats will tell you that the big spending bills were needed for rescue. Yeah. And I would say in March of 21, the economy didn't need rescue, was already in recovery, right? So these were rescue size packages. And even Larry Summers, I remember there was a great debate between Larry Summers and Paul Krugman. And Summers I think said, "Look, this is
[00:15:59] at least 900 billion, a trillion, too much." And the Federal Reserve was ve summer of 23 22 Federal Reserve was very slow off the mark and you know we we ended up and you know again imagine top 10% has assets stock market is flying you're in the bottom 50% you have no assets but you have debt. Yes. So you credit cards are up u mortgages impossible to buy a house. house prices had gone through the roof due to COVID.
[00:16:34] So, it really did like end the American dream and but we we've been suffering these distributional effects. Scott, what what is the American dream today? Do you think? Uh look, I I think the American dream is what it what it's always been. But after World War II, I think 90% of American families uh the the children made more than the parents. Now, now I think it's 50/50, but you know, it's to to own a home. It's
[00:17:04] financial security. It's to uh some some level of comfort. It's purpose in your work. It's the to be able to support your family. Uh to be able to have choices to not have to work two two jobs. I I made a remark at the Economic Club of New York last week, two weeks ago and Mike Pence decided he was going to troll me and because I said the American dream is not built on cheap goods, right? And he said, "Well, yes,
[00:17:39] it is." And you know, I I just say, "Vice President Pence, this let them eat flat screens economic policy that doesn't is isn't what people want. They we they don't want the bobbles from China. It's like the old they want progression. People want progression. I I mean I remember reading um there's a uh I think Jonathan height had some work on this a long time ago where happiness is measured by your change in net worth
[00:18:08] or income per year. It doesn't matter what your absolute levels are by all these socioeconomic kind of surveys that they do. That feeling like you're having some progression in life is what folks are looking for. And I wonder whether solving for that, we created a system, and I I I'd love your point out your your your read on this, that we said everyone should own a home. That's the American dream. And in order to do that,
[00:18:30] people put most of their net worth into a home. 60% I think of middle class net worth is tied up in their in a single asset. And then in order to get them to feel like they're progressing, we've created a system of loans and a system of kind of economic and fiscal policy that ultimately drives the value of the home up every year. Now we're kind of in an unsustainable housing bubble. Can most people can't even afford to buy a
[00:18:51] home. What did we get wrong there? And how does that affect what the American dream should look like going forward? Well, I I think a lot of it is scarcity because what what you're talking about is like out in San Francisco, super tight zoning laws. So there there's scarcity for home. If if you think like Ivy League education, all of a sudden you gave all these people access to Ivy League educations. You brought in international students, but
[00:19:22] the the number of degrees awarded at Harvard, Dale, Princeton probably hasn't changed very much since the 1950s. So you you created just this demand for scarce things which leads to this anxiety. Um, but you you you also created, I think, a sense of hopelessness through cuz if you're I can't access I will never get I will never be able to pay down my student loan. I will never be able to afford a home. I can never see my income growing