[00:17:04] financial security. It's to uh some some level of comfort. It's purpose in your work. It's the to be able to support your family. Uh to be able to have choices to not have to work two two jobs. I I made a remark at the Economic Club of New York last week, two weeks ago and Mike Pence decided he was going to troll me and because I said the American dream is not built on cheap goods, right? And he said, "Well, yes,
[00:17:39] it is." And you know, I I just say, "Vice President Pence, this let them eat flat screens economic policy that doesn't is isn't what people want. They we they don't want the bobbles from China. It's like the old they want progression. People want progression. I I mean I remember reading um there's a uh I think Jonathan height had some work on this a long time ago where happiness is measured by your change in net worth
[00:18:08] or income per year. It doesn't matter what your absolute levels are by all these socioeconomic kind of surveys that they do. That feeling like you're having some progression in life is what folks are looking for. And I wonder whether solving for that, we created a system, and I I I'd love your point out your your your read on this, that we said everyone should own a home. That's the American dream. And in order to do that,
[00:18:30] people put most of their net worth into a home. 60% I think of middle class net worth is tied up in their in a single asset. And then in order to get them to feel like they're progressing, we've created a system of loans and a system of kind of economic and fiscal policy that ultimately drives the value of the home up every year. Now we're kind of in an unsustainable housing bubble. Can most people can't even afford to buy a
[00:18:51] home. What did we get wrong there? And how does that affect what the American dream should look like going forward? Well, I I think a lot of it is scarcity because what what you're talking about is like out in San Francisco, super tight zoning laws. So there there's scarcity for home. If if you think like Ivy League education, all of a sudden you gave all these people access to Ivy League educations. You brought in international students, but
[00:19:22] the the number of degrees awarded at Harvard, Dale, Princeton probably hasn't changed very much since the 1950s. So you you created just this demand for scarce things which leads to this anxiety. Um, but you you you also created, I think, a sense of hopelessness through cuz if you're I can't access I will never get I will never be able to pay down my student loan. I will never be able to afford a home. I can never see my income growing
[00:19:52] to give me access there. Yeah. A and um so is that is that a dereg solution? Is that the Well, I think the first the first part of it is it's a data problem because in order for the government I mean the one thing that struck me about I think this Trump 2.0 administration is I think you have a better beat on the fact that this data is not as reliable as other administrations would say they were in order to do whatever it is they
[00:20:20] wanted to do anyway. So it's sort of like let me just find the data that justifies what my action is. Um, and part of why you can't, I think, tell this story is, do you trust the GDP numbers? Do you trust non-farm payrolls? Do you think these are reliable enough for you to act on behalf of the United States? No. Look, that they're subject to big revisions o over time. And I thought one of the big mistakes the
[00:20:44] Biden administration made, and thank goodness they made it, was they refused to they went with the numbers, not what the American people were feeling. They said, "No, it's a vibe session and you really don't understand how good you have it. This has happened. This has happened." When when in reality, I was on Meet the Press yesterday and there's something that said, "Well, the American people don't believe Donald Trump's doing enough on
[00:21:12] the economy." And I told the host, I said, "You know, the one thing I'm not going to answer is that they don't know what they're talking about. I have to have respect for how they feel and then we need to go back and look at what is causing this anxiety. So you that's what that's what we're going to do. So let's peel the onion back. What do you think is causing this anxiety? Where are the levers that maybe the federal government
[00:21:40] can control in releasing some of the pressure? And what are more market functions that just need to clear up some of these dis Well, look, I I think there we we're we're trying to do three things. And I I think you may have talked about it last week week before the the three legs on the stool. Three legs in the stool. And and from from the outside that you intuited that very well. I I would do just a little refinement on that. That's what I was
[00:22:11] going to ask you. Yeah. just tell me where I was right and wrong. But the you were adjacent to everything. Okay. So, uh on on one uh we are trying to bring down this massive federal debt, cut the spending and but in a controlled way because you can't do it all at once. I I don't like to repeat private conversations with the president, but I'll repeat this one because I think it's very the it really illustrates
[00:22:39] where his head was at. First time I went to SE into seam saw him at Mara Largo and walk in the door and said, "Scott, how are we going to get these debt and deficits down without causing a recession?" Fantastic. And that's exactly where we are now. How are we going to get the debt and deficits down, not cause a recession? And I said, "Sir, um, when you win, you didn't get us here. We're going to set a goal by 2028.
[00:23:10] We want to get back to the long-term average. We're going to deflate it slowly. And long-term average being about 3% deficit to GDP. About three three and a half% deficit to GDP. And you know, like I keep saying the US, we don't have a revenue problem. We have a spending problem because we are averaging right about 18% revenue. And I'm talking about federal government. Federal government only. We're at about
[00:23:36] 18%. and Biden administration blew it out blew the spending out to 25. Normally it's about 21 21 and a half. We have the 2% inflation nominal GDP it take real GDP is 18. So we get nominal GDP 3.8 and it all works out. Yeah. And it was very I had uh one of the heads of one of the Singapore sovereign wealth funds here last week. Guess what Singapore spends the in terms of spending to GDP deficit 3%. Uh they they have no deficit but
[00:24:15] they they spend 18%. 18% 18%. And he said you know he said we have a lot in common with the Trump administration. We like small government. We don't like immigration, illegal immigration, and we like personal safety, which I thought was very interesting. Sorry. So, let me just um understand. So, deflating government spending is key, but the big challenge has been that we have now accumulated 30 some odd trillion dollars
[00:24:42] nearly of debt. And the interest on that debt has started to grow. We now have to pay $1.2 trillion in interest payments per year. So that starts to consume more of the spending budget that we have at the federal level, which means we can spend less on the rest of the federal government's programs, meaning you have to cut a lot more than you otherwise would have, which is what makes it so difficult and so painful. Is it
[00:25:10] realistic that you can get Congress to act in the way that Congress needs to act to get to the level that we need to get to given the high interest payments and the high debt level that we have? Yeah. and w with this Republican Congress. Uh, and look, I I I'm I'm not sure what a deficit hawk is, but I I think I I would qualify as one. And, uh, a lot of the Republicans, I actually have to coax him, you can't do this all
[00:25:37] at once. I I was with the one of the congressional budget committees two weeks ago, and, you know, they really want to cut this fast. And I said, you do realize every 300 billion we cut is about a percent of GDP. So you you could so we we are trying to land the plane, right? Uh well, and the plan uh because that that's really what I'd like to talk about today. I think there are three plans here, but plan one, we're going to
[00:26:10] delever the government via the spending. uh we are also going to shed excess labor from the government. So on that side and then on the other side we're going we're going to deregulate the financial system. The regulated financial systems really been what I call a regulatory corset for a long time and as we deregulate that then the private sector can relever. So government deleveraging, private sector releveraging and the employment or
[00:26:44] the folks who lost their government jobs will be picked up by the more productive. But this sorry this is really important and I think this is the most critical thing. I'm really glad we got the chance to talk today because I hear so much about the conversation on any one of these topics independent of the others and there's a relationship between them that I think is critical to understand on how this administration is
[00:27:07] aiming to drive an economic recovery that is not inflationary is sustainable and also will allow people to have the American dream in a way that they can't have access to today. Yeah. And the so part of fixing the affordability crisis is what can and we we come back and talk about it if you want, but what where can we get prices down? You know, like e eggs are easy or but the the other side of getting prices
[00:27:35] down is getting real wages up. So on getting real wages for working people up, it goes back to the main street versus Wall Street. And the the second plan is to the reorder the international trading system and bring manufacturing jobs back to the US and you have reinvigorate the the middle class because again through tariffs well to to use tariffs that we're needed to bring other countries uh into line and to create an
[00:28:14] economic incentive to onshore for some industries and some supply chains. Well, so there there's tariffs. Then I think there are three other things we can do which are the centerpiece of the administration. We can have the low and predictable taxes. We can substantially uh slash regulations because regulations are the equivalent of that'll drive investment dollars, private investment dollars and predictability in
[00:28:42] regulations. Uh and then uh cheap energy, right? And sorry, what what is the relationship between the tax cuts and um the getting to 3% three and a half% deficit as a percent of GDP, especially because the CR unfortunately gave folks a get out of jail free card because we kept the you know $2 trillion cap for the next alone. Uh yes. Uh, but you got to have we we I I I been in this building. I think this is my seventh
[00:29:17] week. President Trump been back at the White House for eight weeks. So, you actually do need time. Yeah. So, what a lot of people who weren't happy about the CR, but shutting down the government wouldn't have been productive either politically or economically. So, sorry. Does does um tax cuts get made up with tariffs or does tax cuts get made up with cutting government spending? Well, tax cuts will so tax cuts and
[00:29:45] deregulation will uh change the growth traje uh if trend line has been 1.8 eight. If you can move the growth to three or above, right, then you really change their trajectory and if you can um keep expenses flat or do the unthinkable and cut expenses, then you can really So this is important. So sorry, government revenue as a percent of GDP can go lower if you have lower expenses and a faster growing economy. Yes, I think that's
[00:30:18] like really important for folks to understand that relationship. And so in isolation, tax cuts might reduce revenue, but when done with reduced government spending and deregulation and a reordered international trade model, you theoretically will accelerate economic growth in this country, increase government revenue overall, even with a lower tax rate. That's kind of a theory, right? And and you know, I'll I'll tell you, shame on me. I I was
[00:30:42] in the investment business 35 years. I I talk very confidently that CBO scoring says this and it turns out I I didn't know you know what about CBO scoring. Like when you're on this side of the wall, you realize how crazy it is. It's crazy. So So just quite a gameable system. It's a Yeah, it it's very gameable. And one of the most gameable parts of it is in normal CBO scoring that so we we're calling we're saying
[00:31:09] that we want to renew the tax cuts, right? We're actually just renewing the current tax regime, right? That but somehow a after they expire then they go back to the old rate. Spending never changes like spending never has to get renewed. And I think when when I look and think about a mental model and how does systems work, how do they break down? One of the things that has caused this spending bulge is this idea that you never had to
[00:31:41] rescore spending. Oh, it's nuts. And the incentive model is when you have a constituency that you represent as an elected representative that's earning from that spending, they're telling you, "If you want to get reelected, make sure my earnings stay and get me more." And then every year you've got a set of elected representatives whose, you know, primary objective in a democratic system is to go in and get more money for their
[00:32:05] constituents. How do we solve that fundamental problem? How do you think about that? Well, you got to deal with a second. Do you actually think that that's true? Do you think that most politicians are here to just get money for their Good question. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's it's OPM. It's other people's money, but they Danny DeVito had that movie. Yeah. But but you you would regard that as being a good politician.
[00:32:26] Like you brought home the bacon for for your district. Yeah. That because the the CR a lot of people didn't like it. But one of the things that a lot of people didn't like there were no earmarks in it. Like how dare they? Totally. The Christmas tree bill that kind of shows up at the 11th hour where everyone gets a little bit. Yeah. Can you talk about So we talked about this deregulation as this one very important
[00:32:51] lever, right? So how do we add 50 100 basis points of growth back in? We're going to do it through deregulation. How do you undo the financial corset as you said? What are the what are the sort of three or four big ideas that you'd like to affect? Yep. So um we are reexamining all all the bank regulations and why why are they there? Why why do banks have to I can't remember it's five or 7% to hold treasury bills. What are
[00:33:21] the regulations? Why do I I had a whole group of community bankers or small banks here last week? And why do they have to hold the same amount of capital that JP Morgan and Wells Fargo and City hold when they don't have the complexity? They don't have why do the regulators one one of these small bankers said, "Well, you know, Bank America does it this way." Well, Bank America has a trillion dollars in deposits. Yeah, this was
[00:33:52] $183 million. Yeah, but when you look at the regulatory overhang of some of these things, Basel 1, Basel 2, you have all of these frameworks and then as a result, all these organizations that are running around trying to help you administer this complexity, all it does is just lower economic activity in the end. Well, and and but it's I know you all talk about incentives a lot. Back to incentives. What's a regul regulator's
[00:34:17] incentive just to keep like keep tightening the corset? They don't care about growth. They they don't care about the uh common sense. Turn off turn off every risk. It's their job. If you had to create a metric then to say, okay, here's how we're going to measure this undoing of the financial corset. Is it sort of the lending velocity by private lenders so that the private releveraging can occur? Is that a good way to think
[00:34:44] about or is rates a way to think about it? Well, it it doesn't have to be rates, but if if we do all the things I was just talking about, if we deregulate, if we have cheap energy, the I if we shed excess labor from the government, if we get government spending down, then rates inflation should come down, rates should come down. Yeah. Uh but the on the question of how are we going to measure it? I I don't have any problem with private
[00:35:13] credit. Yeah. Like I I actually think it's exciting the dynamic. It's dynamic. It meets the business where it is. Yeah. I agree. And the the strength of the US financial system is the depth and now the breadth. But you you could see that what's happened that so much lending is being pushed outside the regulated banking system. That tells you it's overregulated. Yeah. Right. So now um once we so one test will be
[00:35:44] how has bank lending especially small regional small banks community banks that come undone and you these small banks the small banks and community banks they're 70% of a loans they're 40% of small business loans and that that's one of the reasons Main Street's been stifled. So can you talk about then how you will work with the Fed in sort of the change of all of this financial you need to and do you need to work with
[00:36:13] Congress too to make these changes and also just generally maybe your thoughts on just the Fed in this process of helper foe like where where do they stand? Well the the Fed I 100% support the Fed's autonomy in monetary policy. Yeah. I don't agree with it all the time, but right that how it is. It's how it is. It's how it is. And um so and and I've said I won't comment on perspective policy. I can talk about their mistakes in the past