[00:00:00] All right, everybody. We are super pleased to have Rahm Emmanuel join us for the all-in interview today. He was the senior adviser of Bill Clinton, last president, reside over zero national debt, and he was Obama's chief of staff, mayor of Shytown, ambassador to my favorite country to visit Japan uh under President Biden. He hasn't made an official announcement about his presidential run in 2028, nor do I think
[00:00:24] he's going to make an announcement here, but he's been talking a lot about where the country needs to go in a postTrump world, specifically in 2028. Freeberg and I are going to ask Rahm about the most important topics facing America today. the economy, inflation, employment, surging national debt, never- ending wars, the rise of socialism, and sadly anti-semitism, immigration, skilled and legal, and how his positions have evolved over four
[00:00:51] decades of service to America. Welcome to the All-In Interview. Rahm Emanuel, welcome, Rahm. >> I'm Yeah. >> Okay, there you go. >> I didn't know that was the queue. I was like waiting for that was felt like an obituary. I was waiting for the rabbi to get up. [laughter]
[00:01:11] >> [music] >> I'm going [music] that introduction is the only one that ever starts with Clinton. Usually they start my career in Congress and so I give you a lot of kudos for remembering that I started as senior adviser to President Clinton. So >> well let's start with that. What did you learn under Clinton and [laughter] Obama? And you know, these two what I would say are the last two sane presidents we seem to have had who were
[00:01:43] moderates. In my mind, I'm a moderate, >> slightly left-leaning, >> but uh these seem to have been two great presidential runs that you were involved in. What did you learn from each of those individuals? >> They have different skill sets. So, let's also but they they had an outlook of the world. They had an outlook of the United States in the world. They had a outlook of kind of a progressive affirmative view
[00:02:04] of government. I think they most importantly, which I kind of remind everybody, you can't have progressive policies if people think that the government can't run and organize a one car parade. Not possible. They have to have an affirmative view. And the last time you've had a net positive was under Bill Clinton. And it actually wasn't for uh the balanced budget obviously helped, but actually it shifts when he signs
[00:02:26] welfare reform. And you can go back and look at the data. Uh but to their skill set, Bill Clinton was a unique person who um in my view was able to integrate in three-dimensional chess both policy, politics and press [snorts] and understood the presidency as a in a way that uh Teddy Roosevelt had redefined it. He was redefining it for the 21st century and he really meant what he said being a bridge there. And nobody was
[00:02:58] better not just at giving a speech but taking a policy being able to communicate to carry people from where they were to change and may not make change threatening and then achieve the objectives you wanted. That said, President uh Obama in my own view uh coming at the end or not the end but the Iraq war etc understood that this was a different president both the end of the Iraq war or towards the end and the financial
[00:03:29] meltdown that we were at a pivotal moment and a transitional moment for America and I do think you know look every president gets judged what's the world you inherited what is the world you leave behind. And sometimes the harshest critics of both Obama and Clinton come from the left, not the right. And I said, "Is it the peace or the prosperity you don't like most?" Because I'll I'll address it. Was it >> the fact that post Reagan, Clinton's
[00:03:58] economy grew the most, jobs grew the most, and income disparity shrunk the most? And people were calling it the uni power that no country both economically, politically, militarily had as the power the United States had. Now we can get back to what happened there. Uh and then I think in the same way uh the left criticizes Obama for being kind of uh tepid and you know he hires a country that's near a depression known as the
[00:04:25] great recession but it was actually getting close to a depression saves it from that transitions to from losing 800,000 jobs to creating 200,000 jobs and you know gets America out of uh two wars uh continues obviously the war on terror but repositions America in the world to be a force for good. And I learned how you, you know, it's not like a to-do kit. There's no kind of there's no to-do kit in the drawer of the
[00:04:55] resolute desk, but the merging of policy, politics, and uh I want to say public relations, but communications. >> Did Obama export American democracy as a point of primary policy? And did that lead to this world that we find ourselves in today where there's this pullback because a lot of what gets exported >> ends up being kind of one side of the political spectrum, not the other. And now we kind of seeing this what did we
[00:05:24] do? >> I made this point a long time ago. I said it recently at the Aspen Security Conference. So I'm now writing my next op-ed on this the journal as a prelude of a curtain raiser to the summit uh by Xi and Trump. Mhm. I'm uh I'm going to I'm labeling it the summit of disruption. Xi is largest export is not autos electronics. It's the domestic dis economic dysfunction of China. They're crushing everybody other countries
[00:05:57] manufacturing base industrial base across the world. They have more cases WTO cases than any other country and all of them combined are against China. Chile steel plant, Indonesia's garment plant, Brazil's four burn furnaces. We are exporting our domestic political and cultural dysfunction. That is the two superpowers are holding the world hostage. One through economic dysfunction and domestic. I mean Xi refuses to deal with the obviously the
[00:06:26] real estate bubble popping a consumer that's flat on their back and an industrial uh base that makes no rational sense. And so they're I mean literally their as an example their auto industry is now exporting more cars and their profits are down 20%. >> Right? >> We I mean by uh through Trump you can look at what he's doing in Brazil 9 days before the German election meeting with the neo-Nazi party the AFD there was
[00:06:53] race tensions uh in Great Britain. We seem to we want to exacerbate them. We are literally exporting both political and cultural dysfunction at our home onto the world. Uh now I happen to think this president stylistically likes to punch down and kiss up to Putin and Xi, but that's a stylistic point. But that's what the two superpowers, they don't seem to have managed their internal and now they're exporting it on
[00:07:20] the rest of the world as a a dumping ground for their domestic problems. I happen to think coming back from Japan etc. that rather than have tariffs we should have an economic block so all of us together can withstand China to actually organize not only that economic block but then kind of other pe uh meet them in the marketplace. That's how we you know win friends and influence enemies. >> Yeah. Is that a different view than the
[00:07:48] Obama era notion that we should be exporting American culture, American democracy, I think was the framing. And that then opened the floodgates to exporting our culture wars. And then our culture wars became this kind of battleground where there's like transgender theater in Africa and like things, right? All of this stuff. >> No, I don't think that's what opened the door. Uh, look, David, I think the United States of America, like every
[00:08:18] country, has four tools in their national security toolbox. One is military power, second is political persuasion, third is economic statecraftraft, and fourth is cultural attraction. And you're saying that, I mean, I think America's culture large, not just Hollywood. Um, the American brand is a cultural attraction or was. I actually think this president has hurt the American brand, our economic state craft, our market,
[00:08:54] our technology, our universities and research. Uh, uh, national labs that is a e piece of our economic state craft is a piece of our national security and our ability. You know, there was a great story the other day by David Graham, but gentlemen, only the United States could get Russia and Ukraine around the table. There is no other world power. Our political persuasion could to do that is an asset in our national security
[00:09:22] toolbox. If you wanted to do the reason I laid out in my speech in the Middle East in Israel, the 23 state solution, China, Russia or Europe cannot do that. Only we can do that. Now, we have a massive polit political military power. each uh I happen to think it's not prepared for the future. That's on both parties. I was also present at one at them. I think we got so enamored with the war on terror we lost sight of the
[00:09:48] trans transformation that was happening on the battlefield and the technologies. You can see that in the drone area as an example. Neither Iran or Ukraine have a navy and they both control waterways near their fronts. Tells you everything you need to know that you're not fighting two wars, you're fighting two different types of wars and we got to get ready for that. So to me, this also is a slightly sickness of all you guys
[00:10:11] in media, which is where do we point the blame? I don't think Obama representing our cultural attractions around the globe. I do think America being popular around the globe is a political asset that then you use. Now that America's brand under Trump is in the toilet, that actually hurts America and its political power, its economic state crap, and its military capabilities. Simple. So I don't kind of say, you
[00:10:37] know, I don't think that we were exporting those cultural things and therefore that's where this problem came. I don't that's not how I see the point of origin or what has happened here. >> Fair enough. Can I just ask one thing on China? So China's been historically >> It's your podcast. You can ask whatever you want. It's whether I It's what it's whether I answer it. >> Well, I'm just here for Jason at his pleasure. But um [laughter]
[00:11:01] like so >> you're doing fine, sweetie. Keep >> that that's true for both of us. >> Okay. Well, thanks. Um Jason's going to have me back. Okay. So, as as I look at China, historically, it's been about this manufacturing base, this energy production capacity, right? I often reference they're on their way to 8 terowatt of electricity production. We're kind of sitting around one, hovering around one, finding it very
[00:11:24] hard to get to two by 2040. So, China's got this massive amount of of energy that they can use to power electrified things. They've got 20 times the manufacturing square footage as the US, and much of it is automated. But now with AI and open sourcing AI, not only is China kind of dampening the capacity to compete in manufacturing, making molecules, making pharmaceuticals, making materials, now we're seeing them
[00:11:52] effectively eliminate the capacity to compete in knowledge, services, and IP. And this has really been the heart of the US economy, at least for the last 30 years, probably going back even further. But as we shifted to a more kind of global trade oriented economy and we allowed manufacturing to move to China and elsewhere, we focused on this kind of knowledge and services base. Do you think that we have a response against
[00:12:14] China today with how we're positioned economically and what's going on with AI? And this is the thing I worry a lot about in this China US conflict is we're all still still looking at the last 30 years as opposed to thinking about what the next 20 years look like in a world of kind of AI commoditization of all the things that American economy has been powered by. one uh so let's step back the way I see it is
[00:12:40] we got ci comes to power and we buy into this win-win stuff that he's selling and it was never a win-win China wants everybody dependent on China and them independent of you that is their theory of the case. You our markets are going to be so big and important you can't do anything about it. You're going to be dependent your economy on our markets. We're going to leverage that to then destroy, manipulate, and control your
[00:13:16] sovereignty. And we'll be independent of you. We don't need your market. And we'll have multiple. If you give us barley, we're going to have five other people give up. Look at the soybeans case. The United States, we'll cut off your soybeans. We got Brazil and Argentina soybeans. So they have duplicity in the system. So they have maximum latitude with minimum for us or anybody else. Second, I take a lesson out of uh
[00:13:44] co and I think this is illustrative of their plan and how we have to get smart. We have to learn from our mistakes. You can't ignore them. You should look and I'm going to get back to your software piece. But in co gene notices in operation of warp speed that within 12 months 14 whatever United States develops a vaccine that has a 90 plus% efficacy. China takes 18 19 months and their efficacy is in the 60%. And we know for a fact that a lot of
[00:14:21] Chinese leaders were not taking the Chinese vaccine but they were end up taking quietly fizer madna etc. And they couldn't export this vaccine. Nobody in the third world want that's a huge opportunity for America. We squander it on the political side the economic side the cultural side winning quote unquote the global side. Second, Xi makes a decision that will never happen again. Massively invests in the life sciences and within 5 years,
[00:14:52] China is not just nipping at our heels. The Perry pursuit with the United States in life sciences, a place that the United States outside of one or two examples in Europe dominated. Now again, I'm going to take a shot at Trump. Every budget he's proposed a 40% cut in NIH. Every budget. and the Republicans face off and allow 15%. You're not going to cut NIH in your way to American leadership. There's a pancreatic drug on the market.
[00:15:21] It came from NIH funding and it's actually now looking like it will actually address three or four other cancers. The NIH, the National Science Foundation, the DARPA are and America's national labs and our national universities are our crown jewel. And what are we doing? We have an administration declaring war and actually involved in unilateral disarmament. Now software and manufacturing we are dominant in software and in those tech
[00:15:51] spaces. It doesn't we shouldn't think it's either software or manufacturing. It's both. We allowed one to atrophy everybody. We allowed a commercialization of our national security. The business round table, the chamber of commerce way over influenced our national security visa v China when we saw industry by industry, supply chain by supply chain move offshore and America economy kept getting vulnerable and that's on everybody
[00:16:20] everybody. And the other piece of it is so what we need to do what's the next 20 years one aggregate Australia, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, EU, friends in Latin America and get more friends. Don't declare war on Brazil. It's a big economy in the region. Make it an economic block because standing together makes China isolated. Isolate the isolator. then use that time of a block not our unilateral actions but in an economic block where
[00:16:51] we're the dominant player to organize our research and our capacity to then build up now example using the defense industry United States again flatfooted but don't underestimate the United States new technology entrepreneurs venture capital, the DARPA research arm and the United States ability to deploy. You give us 5 years and our capacity of that incredible system will produce as long as we don't light let Rathon
[00:17:29] General Dynamics to kill it and the Pentagon to nurture it. But we have to use the time of an economic block to stand up what we have allowed to atrophy and then to organize that block to confront China and then China and North Korea and Iran and Russia. We isolate them. And right now I got to be honest, the president has isolated America at America's vulnerability. So that's how I look at the next 20. >> Yeah. And where do the Middle East
[00:17:59] nations fit into that equation? Are they part of the block? And >> Sure, David. I would say this. There's three trends going on in the Middle East. Step back from the news of the straight of Hammoose. There's three or four trends that we then aggregate. And one of the reasons I laid out what I laid out in Israel is a way that would isolate Iran. It would be a good day for Israel security, a good day for America's leadership, and
[00:18:29] a good day for American allies in the Middle East. The UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait are staying with kind of the United States. Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Jordan in that first list. Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Turkey, and Qatar look like they're hedging. They know they're reliant on America, but they're not going to be so dependent that they're vulnerable because of the lack of the leadership in two wars, Iran and Iraq. That's one trend. And one of
[00:19:03] the reasons I mentioned the the speech, the India, Middle East, Europe economic corridor, it keeps everybody coming closer to the United States economically and also politically on the 23 states. Second, Iran invested 40 years and 40 billion plus in the what Israel described as the octopus, the proxies. [snorts] Hamas is degraded to defeat. I thought there was a very good article in the foreign affairs on this