[01:03:41] You can't have capitalism or economic freedom with corruption as a as a grounding principle. It's against the rule of law which is key to capitalism and economic freedom and redistribution doesn't solve anything as it relates to growth. I believe in five things that are essential to grow the economy and grow incomes and so people are no longer living paycheck to paycheck. One, everything we've just talked about
[01:04:06] on education and training from prek to BA. Two, the dignity act as I said as it relates to immigration. Three, modernize our energy system. Visav Texas is the best example in the United States. And I said that three, four, 10% levy on all predictive markets and online sport gaming and it has to go to the NIH, National Science Foundation, and DARPA. double our dollars into research. Fifth, a tax code that does
[01:04:38] not reward wealth preservation, but wealth creation. This tax code is an abomination as it relates to economic freedom. Control the overall spending for the next 5 years so it can't grow and start making some tough choices within the system. I told you, you don't support it. I would not spend $38 billion on detention centers nobody wants. I would take eight of it as a starting point and modernize the,200 community colleges throughout the
[01:05:07] country that are the economic backbone of Lacrosse, Wisconsin, Spartanberg, South Carolina. Go down the list. I've seen it firsthand because we did it in our community colleges. The World Bank called it the best college career program in America. That to me is what we should be doing. And we're going to make some tough choices. I don't believe in sending ICE agents out with $50,000 bonuses when I'd rather give a bonus to
[01:05:30] signing up to be a carpenter electrician. That's more important to America's future than some mass man running around the streets of Minneapolis. What's the politics of this? How do you get Congress to come along? Because for years, we've heard a lot of points from both parties about we are going to rationalize spending. We are going to do the right thing. We are going to get ourselves out of the deficit. We are going to make things
[01:05:50] economically viable for the United States for people are going to advance. Everyone's got great ideas, but when push comes to shove, representatives of their district or of their state end up saying, "I'm going to give more to my people in order to get reelected." And the budget goes up and up and up. >> David, David, here's the thing which is unfortunate about American politics. >> As a person that coined the term never
[01:06:12] allow a good crisis to go to waste. It's the opportunity to do big thing. Look, I believe the surplus created sloppiness that Bill Clinton left. We try to fight two wars with two tax cuts. Really stupid. Never been done in American history. And that's the beginning of a wild. We went from a surplus that Alan Greenspan described would be a danger to America because of the 10 10year Treasury note to running $ 38 trillion of deficit from a surplus to
[01:06:41] that because it was reckless. We fought Iraq and Afghanistan with two tax cuts. Never tried in American history. And it proved to be stupid. Now that crisis has come and due and it's going to force some really tough things on the system and no and we cannot have while also AI is hovering a further concentration of wealth to a very few can't happen because you can't get to the fiscal sensibility you want just talking about cutting not just
[01:07:15] because of the politics because it's not right and it won't work. So, we're going to have to actually deal with the revenue side as well as the spend side. I gave you a cap, but we have a tax code that everybody on this show, me included, are rewarded for preserving wealth, passing it on. There was a story the other day in the Wall Street Journal 6 weeks ago. Retreats are being organized to help kids figure out how to
[01:07:39] handle their inheritance. >> Yeah, >> you have got to be kidding me. And we have a tax code that favors that. You you get you are an idiot if you don't take advantage of pres of actually preserving your wealth and passing it on for one generation another. And you all know this. We all know it. The step up basis is a way to avoid to all taxes when everybody else is working for a living and can't make monthly pay
[01:08:07] bills. So it's going to hit everybody and you're going to make some changes. One thing I was uh as most capitalists not concerned with was minimum wage because I just thought well the free market will work that out. And then after watching it raise in cities in the United States and what's going on in New Zealand and the Nordic countries, all of the studies now show when you go to 12 to $20 an hour, there's no difference.
[01:08:32] Doesn't cause any economic hardship uh for those companies and it doesn't cause unemployment or automation. So what's your take on the federal minimum wage being raised? Three things. I worked with Bill Clinton when we raised it. When Nancy Pelosi and I helped make her a speaker, that was the last time it was raised. It was seven and a quarter. When I was mayor, I raised it. I'm a big believer, not only that, raising the
[01:08:52] minimum wage. I would raise it and have it go up uh each year as we did in Chicago coupled with a very generous earned income tax credit. That's what makes work pay. So, a minimum wage with a very robust uh earned income tax credit of which I would, if I was magic, you know, waving a magic wand, I would take the earned income tax credit, the per child uh tax deduction and do a single family credit. So, it's all in one thing.
[01:09:22] >> I think we should talk about DSA DSA before we wrap. >> You know, last weekend in Chicago, the DSA held their convention. You're not Democrats. You're a separate party. I'll see you in November. You're living, you're literally beating Democrats. Forget about it. Not interested in I I spent my whole life Bill Clinton replacing George Bush, Barack Obama competing against John McCain, flipping 31 districts from red congressman to
[01:09:52] blue congressman so Nancy Pelosi would be a speaker. I am not into turning a blue district midnight blue. It doesn't do anything for minimum wage. It doesn't do anything for universal prek. It doesn't do anything to give 10 million children who didn't have healthcare healthcare. So, I'm not impressed. You are a separate party. You're the Democratic Socialist of America. I'll see you in November on the ballot. You had a party
[01:10:16] convention. You are not a Democrat. And there was a person the other day in Tom Edel's party and Tom Metsel's column uh who a justice Democrat part of the DSA network who said they're not interested in beating Republicans. Well, now I appreciate the honesty. I am I think Donald Trump is an existential crisis. You think Barack Obama, Nancy Pelosi or Hakeim Jeff are an existential crisis? I don't. And we have a
[01:10:48] fundamental strategic difference. We have a fundamental policy difference and we have a fundamental political difference. Go to your own party. Stay there. I'll see you in November. >> There you have it, folks. Over to now with Rahm Emanuel. We will have you back in the coming months and years as you will as this has been amazing and we got to get you on with Chimoth and Sachs next. Thank you so much. >> Thanks guys.
[01:11:14] >> All right, besties. I think that was another epic [music] discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to [music] underwrite your own opinion. What did you guys think? That was fun. That was great.