[00:12:57] years as an engineer or something. I think a culture of this in America would be great for America and great not just for what it does to the government, but how it binds us as a people, right? Serving your country, going there, seeing how hard it is, seeing the the way it works, understanding that like really from the inside what's going on. Listen, I had no idea. It's like what part of the government did you work in
[00:13:15] for your two-year service or your 18 months, right? This would be this would be a a great thing for America and a great thing for our society because um that culture of public service I think would bring us closer together. You were going to say something about the I had um I mean without saying too much but you can guess. So all of us have known Elon for a really long time. I also worked for another person that's of that
[00:13:41] same stature for a long time and he's much shorter. Much shorter. Um, and one of I say that a very good friend of his came to see me recently for lunch and he asked me this exact same question about Elon. He said like it was kind of like as just like the like that's the question that they were grappling with. How is he able to find big balls and so many big balls? I actually can tell you um I've seen him find big balls. Yeah, it's um it's a
[00:14:13] it's a serious strategy though. what I he does is he responds to emails or tweets Twitter people will say like I have a solution to this um we should do that and then I've been CCed on messages where he sends them to the right person and he has people to vet them and see if this idea actually works and I think he's like very opportunistic and doesn't prejudge where you went to school and what your credentials is are. It's
[00:14:36] almost the opposite. The less credentials you are he has a predisposition to think you're more right. Have you solved a problem? By the way, this is a this is a Peter Teal. But but my my answer to this was there's there's a lot of people that can be responsive in email. I think there's a handful of people that are real northern stars for technical talent, but he's the only one that when you walk in the room,
[00:14:56] he says, "Here's this mission." And it is so generally otherworldly. Nobody else can really say that. It is a flywheel, as you said, that is extremely unique. The fact that you can direct that entropy to the United States government I think is a blessing. Now the question is how do we follow up and make it attractive because to your point I saw those kids on that interview and any of my five kids if they had done
[00:15:22] what they did I would have been so proud. I was so impressed with these kids. Very impressive. And and you're like you're proud to be an American watching these kids. You saw Elon's face nodding while they were speaking with a a grin ear to ear. He was proud. proud. He is proud. I think it's important for maybe people to sit back and say this has all been done in a 100 days from a cold start. It's not like he
[00:15:45] brought in people or you brought in people who were like I know the lay of the land here. It was like we're going to figure this out from first principles do zerobased budgeting whatever it is look at the data and see where it leads us. And I think one of the disturbing things about the data and most controversial issues in America today is the border. Yeah. And why did Biden let so many people through the border? It
[00:16:06] was kind of a question if it was even happening. Should we trust these border encounter numbers? It doesn't seem real. And and there's a lack of trust in the government. One side is saying, "Hey, we let all these people in. There's 15 20 million extra people here in order to vote Democratic. Doesn't make a lot of sense to me since the Republicans have become the working party." But putting all that aside, you started looking at
[00:16:27] this and we had a discussion privately about, hey, are these people signing up to vote? Cuz that would be an indicator that this, you know, theory that people were streaming across the border in order to vote. Um, you found some people who were illegal immigrants who registered to vote. This is confounding. It Yes, this is actually true. So um we have we've sampled a handful of states uh and in those handful of states we
[00:16:57] found um people registered to vote and we have found people who actually voted and this is all being done by sampling. Okay. So we are sampling uh DHS data and then have to go to the voter roles check the voter roles and then check the give that to HSI homeless investigations who goes and checks the voter record by subpoena and the and the voter and the cards you sign when you vote. We had uh already three um arrests here in Florida
[00:17:23] actually and one in one indictment uh in Is that publicly known? Yes, it's it's we we posted it. The DOJ the media has not covered like I haven't seen much about that. So you're saying these are these are three individuals who illegally secured or no legally secured a social security. They legally secured social security numbers um through the through the process we talked about last time asylum or some special program or
[00:17:44] whatever and they were given um you know they gave an associate number by by filing a 765 and getting authorization and they registered to vote and they actually voted in 2020 andor 2024. Three have been arrested. I just want to say this carefully. Three have been arrested and one has been indicted. The one we indicted, I want to just stop on this guy for a minute. He's he's an Iraqi national. Uh he voted in 2020 in New
[00:18:09] York. He um went to prison for shooting somebody. Shot some guy's hand off. Has charged, if I remember correctly, 160 60 or $70,000 of benefits through Medicaid. And has we think is now in Iraq because he's active on his Facebook page and the IP address is from Iraq. And credit to our friends at HSI, our partners HSI, and to DOJ for tracking this down. I got to tell you guys, it's difficult, laborious work. It really is. Um, but
[00:18:34] think about that a minute. Is that the tip of the iceberg, Antonio, do you think? Or did you guys do a lot of mining and a lot of digging to come up with those four? How big of a magnitude of an problem do you think this is? What What's your What's your intuition tell you honestly right now about whether there's massive voter fraud or not? Great question and I want to be careful I answer it. Um, I'm going to leave the
[00:18:56] data. So, I'm not leaving the data and I'm entering the area of my opinion, which is what you're asking me. My opinion is and actually let me step back and tell you what we did a second and then take my opinion. We are sampling by hand. Um so when you say data mining, we're not mining. We're actually like pick and shovel going into like by hand. This is not mechanized. There's no AI being applied. There's we're using SQL
[00:19:18] queries. Okay. You're literally pulling one literally snapping a name out of the work authorization database DHS checking that against the voter role and have to go run it down to the state. Super laborious. Okay. So, um, with that in mind, my opinion is that this is the tip of the iceberg. How big the iceberg is, I don't know, and I don't want to speculate cuz I think it it would be, um, not that I think we can do at this
[00:19:40] moment. I think we'll have more data over time, but for sure, if we can sample out of a database, uh, and it takes an engineer about a day to find 20-ish cases. So, what DOJ asks for was 20 10 to 20 cases per state. It just give you a sense of of of what's happening. It takes an engineer about a day to find 10 to 20 cases per state in sampling. That gives you an idea of how you know how many there are, right? Um
[00:20:02] that's that's going on. Are you shocked that people don't care about this more? I'm I'm shock I think people really do care. Should we be should we care more? Yeah. Yes. Well, yes. I want to separate the questions. Uh I think people care more. My guess is everyone here cares a lot. Okay. A lot about this. I think for some reason the news media doesn't care more now. Should you care? Yes. You know, there's this idea like it's there
[00:20:24] always a little bit of fraud. It's pervasive. We should just it's not a big deal. Wrong. Here's the reality. Every vote that is cast illegally in America nullifies the vote of an American citizen. It is your constitutional right to vote in America. And if we don't have a zero defect system, we are violating your constitutional rights. And I will tell you, you deserve, the American public deserves that we strive for a
[00:20:47] zero defect system, right? We make medical devices in America with a zero defect system. Yeah. We shouldn't make votes with zero system. If we don't strive for a zero defect system, we will get a lot more fraud. This is why the real idea is so important. We should strive for this. And it doesn't matter if it's one vote. It's easily solved with the last 15 states that don't require voter ID to simply do that. And
[00:21:07] that would pretty much end this debate, I think. I mean I well I want to tell you uh there are states that do require ID. I think real ID will solve it because real one of the things our engineers are building and it it was already there but they're making it they're cleaning up making it work properly is a thing called save. There's a database called save that is uh available to the states um in the bot administration. They raised the price I
[00:21:27] think about a dollar an API call to $3 and change the API call and all the states stopped you stopped using it. Save is a database that has um the actual citizenship data for the entire country. Okay. We we're cleaning up now and making the the actual UI much better. If the states have Real ID and they use save, you would solve this problem. And I I I I cannot understand why a state would not do this. Whose decision would it be to just change the
[00:21:54] cost of that API? So great question, Chimath. We the Secretary of Homeland Security, I want to thank her, Secretary Gnome, has just signed a memo, a policy memo to make it free. Yeah. Why is there a charge anyway? It doesn't make any sense to me. Yes. Yeah. Very simple. Uh signature always made this free. Your parents I know your dad is an immigrant. My parents are both immigrants. Both immigrants. Two immigrants sitting here.
[00:22:17] My mother came here without speak English. Yeah. Um so to be clear pick me. Me too. You're an immigrant. Also an immigrant. Seventh generation. No. Which one does it fit? I don't know. Who's not? Is it Oh, Jason. Who do you think? Seventh generation. I'm the all-in presidential candidate by default. Um so I don't know. You're from Mount Olympus, though. Yes. Yeah. Um and the five points, but um how should immigration work in this country? You
[00:22:45] know, we've talked about it on our pod, the point-based system, etc. We still want immigration. We need highskilled immigration. We talked to President Trump about that. He said he was committed to giving people green cards who have diplomas. And this is a little out of your uh purview, but just how do you how does Antonio Gracios feel about immigration? You know, deporting people, you know, deporting people with maybe
[00:23:08] less due process than maybe some of us are comfortable with. What do you think we should be doing here as a country? There's a lot in that question. So, look, I'm a enormous fan of immigration. I mean, I you will not find a guy who's more pro immigration than I am. Um because my parents are immigrants. um they came here with nothing and built a life and I am the American dream and I'm so grateful this country for my what
[00:23:30] it's done for my family you won't find it I am so grateful this country was it has been great for us okay um and for all of you the reality is that we need thank [Music] [Applause] you American GDP is simply the function of number of people working times productivity we We have 7 million job openings roughly in America. We need people to work. Yes, this is this is the reality. The the system should very simply be there's a skilled immigration
[00:24:03] group and we figure out what that should be, what jobs you want. We and by the way, America is the best place to live in the world. We all know that. I believe that if we make this easy, uh they will come, right? No problem. And I think there's broad in that. We also need um labor. We do. Our farm, our farmers need labor, need labor in the food industry, restaurants, etc. I think there should be both high-end skilled
[00:24:25] immigration, and there should be a very sensible program for unskilled labor, uh, a work permit program, and you we've got that H2A program. There there is an there is the H2A program. I will tell you, uh, these programs, I mapp the entire system now. Um, they go from DHS to State Department to labor. They're very disconnected and they're they're hard to manage. So, we are we are going to work on this. One of the things we're
[00:24:48] going to work on and hopefully leave behind is both a sensible answer to the illegal problem and a sensible answer to the legal problem. It's very important to the team working on this. They work on this is like super important for Trump's administration because there seems to be a bit of a I don't want to call it a civil war, but heated debate internally between people like yourself and Elon and others who believe
[00:25:08] immigration is critical and then other people who just want to lock the border and deport 20 million people. Steve, I'll call the Steve Banning camp. He's not in the administration clearly. Locking the borders. I want to be clear on this something. I don't believe in open borders. Yeah. When a country opens it border, this country sees its sovereignty. Yes. You have you have to have a closer. You have to have a border
[00:25:25] that is control. Um that doesn't mean you shouldn't have legal immigration, right? It should be it should be a proper process um where people can come in that are great for the country and they believe in our values and they should have a chance to become citizens if they believe in our values, support our country. I really hope that you guys work this out and can have a positive influence like you've had with Doge on
[00:25:42] the administration and really work on this one which is sensible, kind, you know, empathetic uh immigration. Y because you're all immigrants. I mean, the values I set for our team, I just tell you the valor execution values are focus, intensity, and discipline. I added a fourth value here to our team for our team. Compassion. Yes. Antonio, I just want and I want anyone else to join me in saying, look, you're a
[00:26:04] successful, wealthy, um, incredibly handsome, handsome man. That's the best part. But, uh, like I I know the work you're doing super hard. We talked backstage about how hard it's been. I just want to honestly say as an American, thank you for the work you're doing. And well, thank you, bro. All right. Thanks to my friend Antonio Gracias for joining us and thanks to you, the audience, for tuning in for that important discussion about
[00:26:29] Doge. If you want to come to our next event, it's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles, fourth year for All-In Summit. Go to all-in.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team, which won the race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their
[00:26:56] new crypto exchange here in the US. If you love allin, go check them out. And a special thanks to our friends at Circle. They're the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar, redeemable one for one for USD. It's built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap
[00:27:22] between the digital economy and outdated financial analysis. Go check out USDC for all your stable coin needs. And special thanks to my friends including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. We'll let your winners ride. Rainman David. [Music] We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you. Queen of [Music]
[00:28:01] Besties are gone. That is my dog taking a notice in your driveway. Oh man, my room will meet you. I put you should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. We need to get [Music] Mercury's. I'm going all in.