[00:00:00] [Music] Where's Antonio Gracias? Bring him up. How bad is it? How messed up is our government? So, if Twitter was like the JV league, this is like the NBA. It's the most complex thing I've ever seen. How is he able to find big balls? Where do they show up? Do they just apply out of the blue? I mean, where do these guys come from? You found some people who were illegal immigrants who registered to vote. Yes, this is actually true.
[00:00:25] Every vote that is cast illegal in America nullifies the vote of an American citizen. So, Antonio, we we know you're very busy because you decided, like a couple of our other friends, to take a second job working in our government for a 100 or so days. Yeah. Give him a round of applause for that.
[00:00:46] Um, you know, Trump is a unique individual in all the world. There's maybe polarizing in some ways, but one thing that's not polarizing is Doge. I think everybody wants to see waste, fraud, and abuse and controlled spending in government. Maybe there's some questions about how fast it's going, but we all know you and Elon like to go, you know, at a brisk pace. You laid back and you joined a little later in the process, like a
[00:01:14] stat. You joined maybe what, 15, 20 days ago. Uh, I've been there for eight weeks. Eight weeks. Okay. So like yeah 60 60 days and you went public with it maybe a couple weeks ago. Yeah. I wasn't with law Maryland for the first four weeks so you didn't know I was there. Yes. So um so how bad is it? How how messed up is our government? How insane are the processes? You're a process guy. You know we both worked on the the
[00:01:39] Twitter uh acquisition and the and the transfer there and did all the zerobased budgeting. I mean, maybe compare and contrast it to that which was maybe one of the most horrific corporate entities I've ever seen in my life and how that was being run. It was tough. Um, well, let me start with thank you guys. Thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. It's great to be down here to see everybody. Um, and let me also say that
[00:02:01] it's an honor to serve America. Like whatever I am doing, I am grateful to be able to do it. I'm grateful my partners for allowing me to do it and my clients for supporting it. And it is it truly is an honor to be there. There's many great people in the government trying to help. So, let me start with that. Yeah, please. Yeah. It is a sacrifice, right? You're you're taking time out of your day job. It's definitely a sacrifice, but it it it
[00:02:20] really I feel very grateful that I have the capacity and 30 years of training in lead operations that I can be useful. You know, that feels very feels I feel with gratitude. Yeah. How bad is it? Uh so if Twitter was like the the JV league, this is like the NBA. Um it's the most complex thing I've ever seen. I have in uh our office in DC, I have a I've mapped now as an example the entire system of like basically from the border
[00:02:48] to the benefits programs. It's about a 40ft board and it looks like a bos. It's I mean it's an incredible uh like spaghetti gram of stuff and yeah, I've never seen anything so complex in my life. So the answer to your question is it's worse than I thought. much much worse than what we saw at Twitter now X and America Americans and all of you we deserve better. Okay. If we were to and I'm sure Chimath has some
[00:03:16] questions in Freeberry, but if we were to look at $1 spent by our government, waste, fraud, abuse, how many pennies of the dollar is it? If you had to just based on what you've seen so far, arrange here's sad. If you go into any company, any company you guys has ever seen that is not like super wellrun, it probably is like easy cut 15%. Easy, easy, easy. Um, this is where the 15 this is where the the trillion dollar number came
[00:03:45] from. 15% of of $7 billion. I think if we had the political will, you'd easily get that 15% no problem. um not without any problem at all and without cutting the core uh entitlement programs. So it's definitely there. The question is do people want to do it or not? And remember every dollar we take we are taking from an NGO or a beltway consultant. You know it's it's actually that people are screaming about this
[00:04:09] because we're taking money from them. Um and it it is whatever you read in the news media I got to tell you it isn't true. I mean um the cuts I think it's 88% of of the people that have left the government have taken packages. The packages are very lucrative. uh there sort of you know 9 months or so of severance. Um and they're they're voluntary. So yeah, I tell you and I also say the people that work in government who are good, there's lots of
[00:04:29] good people in the government that I have met and have pointed this at all this stuff. They deserve better. Okay, imagine trying to be a civil servant. You want to do the right thing. You're working there because you care about America and you're in this like massive bureaucratic morass with all this stuff on top of you. And man, I've seen like I've seen OIG reports where they the people have reported to OIG like sex
[00:04:49] trafficking and they turn it in and nothing happens. Like literally nothing happens. Okay. So that's very frustrating and they stick it out. They keep going and they keep working hard for America. So I I think it's it's not just about the cost cuts, it's about the culture like the culture change of allowing allowing good people who are in the government to understand that someone's listening that with when they
[00:05:10] want to make improvement change or when they find fraud, waste and abuse, they can do it and there's an avenue now to do it. Uh I think that's actually going to be one of the most important lasting thing we leave is this idea that your voice matters in the government that there are good people in the government and when they want to do the right thing there's a way to do it and you got people coming back to work in the
[00:05:29] office. Oh, I have to tell you. So, um, you know, we have been pillaried often in the press for security where I started. And, um, here are the facts. When I got there, just like at Twitter, the parking lot was empty. And I'm talking about stadiumsiz parking, okay? Empty. Uh, the office was empty. There was no one in the corporate office, the headquarters office in Woodland, Maryland. Um, and then I we because we
[00:05:50] follow our process of mapping from like end to end the system. We went to visit a couple offices. I went to one myself. The one that I went to, there were about 20 people in the waiting room. There were seven people in the windows. Of the seven people, three had their shades half down. Those people were taking phone calls because during CO, they turned everyone into phone operators. And we learned is they were still
[00:06:09] running on CO operations. So we have now um through our efforts and efforts of the inter administrator brought everyone back to the office and back to the offices in the field. We haven't closed one field office, not one since we've been there. Everything you're reading about service levels is not true. Um, what I saw, imagine how frustrating that is if you're you're waiting in the waiting room, you see seven windows out
[00:06:29] of 25 open and three other people are taking phone calls and you're waiting. I mean, talk about customer service. So, look, like in in all the companies that we all run, we always talk about using incentives to shape the outcome you want. And I think you keep insisting, which I think is right, that civil servants by and large want the right things to happen. That's why they chose to go and work for the government. So
[00:06:53] what is the incentive we need to change? Is it a compensation incentive? Is it like what like what is it? Look, I think the people that work in the government, it's a normal distribution of everything, right? It's two and a half million people in the government plus contractors. And you know, some people are great, some people aren't great and every a lot of people in the middle and the people in the middle react to the
[00:07:10] incentives as you as you point out. I think the most important thing here is transparency of the metrics because they these folks aren't there for the money. Many of them are very good because we're make money somewhere else. The incentives we should create are uh transparency and some basic metrics. They know how they're doing. You know, we we were as example at social security. We were criticized for the website uptime. Well, turns out web set
[00:07:31] up time has been better since we got there than after. Imagine we have engineers and we've now uh published the metrics in the website publicly so people would see it. So the engineering team now managed the website can see um you know that they're doing a good job or not doing a good job and the public can see they're doing a good job or not doing a good job. I I don't think financial incentives are always useful
[00:07:50] but this is not just about money like for example if you if you look at Singapore the Singaporean approach from Lee Kuanu was let's create a a government that is extremely uh empowered but let's also make it quite small let's make them well compensated and let's try to find sort of an elite cadri of folks is that approach possible in the United States or should we even think that we should try something like that?
[00:08:19] I mean, look, Singapore is a unique ex a unique experiment in the world. It's also a place where you uh you know, you might wind up getting caneed if you drop chewing gum on the on the ground. Okay. So, um in America where we have a different a different level of um I would say of u freedom and rights. You know, we should strive for a civil service that is professional, well compensated and missionoriented. And
[00:08:41] that mission orientation is serving the United States. And I think that gets back to look there are very good people. They want to do the right thing. Serve their country. That's why they're there. And it's uh I wouldn't make it I wouldn't make it about the money. I would make it about the mission. And and we'll get them we get there are very good people that they're on mission. I met them. They are the ones pointing all
[00:08:58] this stuff out to us. Right. Yeah. Can you talk about um you guys went on Fox the other day with the Doge team? Big Balls and Big Balls was there. We were talking about this backstage. All of those guys were like 12 years old. What is it about the role, the opportunity, the way it was presented that attracted this group of what were incredibly wellspoken, highly intelligent, clearly extraordinarily motivated individuals. It's the sort of
[00:09:36] caliber of talent that all of us aspire to hire and f first of all find hire and then they're on the mission. Is it Elon's inspiration and the reach he has that made this happen? Is this a particular moment in American history? Because I was looking at that table and I was thinking about like the founding fathers and the age of the founding fathers when they wrote the Declaration of Independence. They were all super
[00:09:58] young and I was like, man, this is an opportunity to kind of rewrite how government operates in America today. But I was just struck by the age and the talent and how that came together and kind of where do they show up? Do they just apply out of the blue and you guys you guys have recruiters out there? I mean, where does where do these guys come from? So, uh, we do have we do have a recruiting team actually. Um, they're
[00:10:17] great. U Baris and Emily do the recruiting. And I'll tell you, I just want to stop for a second and say this. Th this is extraordinary. These people are extraordinary. All of them. The young people you saw at the table are extraordinary. Um, they're amazing engineers. I mean, they're like any one of us would be they're 10x engineers. we would all be thrilled to have in our companies. Elon obviously is an extraordinary leader. So they come they
[00:10:37] come for for for him. But I think they're really motivated by the mission. They're motivated by the idea that this is a moment where they can actually make an extraordinary difference to the country and that is a flywheel that brings more people, right? So they bring their friends and it's, you know, you recruit other people in um and there's there are extraordinary extraordinary people there, man. So you saw the people
[00:10:56] at the table in that particular interview. I didn't say a word. I literally it wasn't the company. I actually was you and the other guy. Yeah. I didn't say anything. The reason I didn't say anything was because I didn't need to. Yeah. These guys are extraordinary. Um and like you know, one of the men there spoke about this. Ethan, he is in he's in my son's class at Harvard. He dropped out of Harvard with two classes left, right, to come do
[00:11:15] this. Um you know, Big Ball is an example. He's great. Ron, the guy with I mean I I work with an engineer named Rahm was great. U you and then and I got to tell you there's a whole another strat of people that you didn't see there who are kind of in their 30s. Um, I think my my buddy Josh is working on uh on the college stuff and a few other things. These guys are I mean this guy was a senior executive rising star at
[00:11:37] KKR left his job to come do this. Okay. And there's innumerable number of people like this. It's an extraordinary group. I feel honored to be part of it. I feel honored to work with them. It really is Can I tell you an answer to this? Yeah. But I just want like do you think that this cuz these guys aren't going to work in the government forever. They're coming in, they're building something, they're activating, and they're moving
[00:11:59] on back to their private life like the founding fathers did at the start of the American government. Is that a better model for how government should operate rather than have career employees, career politicians, but treat it more like civil service where everyone has some role that they should play at some point like they do in Israel where you have to, you know, go go to the army for a few years and you everyone is
[00:12:20] required. Same in Singapore actually. Yeah. um where everyone kind of has to go spend their time in the government, contribute, participate, but it doesn't become a mechanism where there's an incentive to grow it and get more money flowing through it because that's how I individually as a politician or employee long-term would benefit from the government. Yeah, I think it's a great point. It's a great point on Singapore.
[00:12:38] Actually, I should have brought that up when Jamath has a question. I think that we're proving there's there's two uh types of people in government today. There's careers, they call them, and politicals, right? I think there should be a third type, which is what you're talking about. people that are doing public service for a short duration, shorter duration, whether it's me 130 as as a SGE or, you know, it's a couple of
[00:12:57] years as an engineer or something. I think a culture of this in America would be great for America and great not just for what it does to the government, but how it binds us as a people, right? Serving your country, going there, seeing how hard it is, seeing the the way it works, understanding that like really from the inside what's going on. Listen, I had no idea. It's like what part of the government did you work in
[00:13:15] for your two-year service or your 18 months, right? This would be this would be a a great thing for America and a great thing for our society because um that culture of public service I think would bring us closer together. You were going to say something about the I had um I mean without saying too much but you can guess. So all of us have known Elon for a really long time. I also worked for another person that's of that
[00:13:41] same stature for a long time and he's much shorter. Much shorter. Um, and one of I say that a very good friend of his came to see me recently for lunch and he asked me this exact same question about Elon. He said like it was kind of like as just like the like that's the question that they were grappling with. How is he able to find big balls and so many big balls? I actually can tell you um I've seen him find big balls. Yeah, it's um it's a
[00:14:13] it's a serious strategy though. what I he does is he responds to emails or tweets Twitter people will say like I have a solution to this um we should do that and then I've been CCed on messages where he sends them to the right person and he has people to vet them and see if this idea actually works and I think he's like very opportunistic and doesn't prejudge where you went to school and what your credentials is are. It's
[00:14:36] almost the opposite. The less credentials you are he has a predisposition to think you're more right. Have you solved a problem? By the way, this is a this is a Peter Teal. But but my my answer to this was there's there's a lot of people that can be responsive in email. I think there's a handful of people that are real northern stars for technical talent, but he's the only one that when you walk in the room,
[00:14:56] he says, "Here's this mission." And it is so generally otherworldly. Nobody else can really say that. It is a flywheel, as you said, that is extremely unique. The fact that you can direct that entropy to the United States government I think is a blessing. Now the question is how do we follow up and make it attractive because to your point I saw those kids on that interview and any of my five kids if they had done