[00:40:50] never existed before. So we had to go out and actually get it physically in the real world. So robots like this supercharge our ability to be able to drive models to create largest amount of efficiency gains. So this power plant for example is supposed to be operating at 620 megawatts but it's not reaching its capacity. It's only operating at 580. So how do you unlock that? Well, when you have all this information and data sets
[00:41:15] that we've captured with robots, plus all the data sets that customers have, you're actually able to drive optimization to see how to impact efficiency and production. And so what this AI model is doing is looking at the data sets from the robot dogs as well as data sets from the health the health data from the robots to pinpoint that there's actually a steam issue going into the turbine. Now, an ability to fix
[00:41:40] these things has actually been able to unlock for this site and for many others that we work on a 1% improvement to efficiency. And this is just the first place that we looked. Now, it's also important to understand that the assets that power the grid are failing at a really fast rate. Now, this power plant had assets like this tank that was decaying at an at incredible rates. It was supposed to be reaching retirement pretty soon. But we were able
[00:42:03] to determine predictively how to extend the useful life of this asset by 10, 20, and 30 years from all this data set. It's really important to understand when you culminate all the kinds of impacts that you can have from this this kind of technology, you get things like this efficiency gains on the dozens of power plants that we've been able to work at. If you extrapolate that across the thermal fleet in the US, that'll give
[00:42:28] you 11.9 gawatt of new power without putting a shovel in the ground. The energy is able to be unlocked using artificial intelligence. It's really important to understand the statement. AI shouldn't just consume, it should create energy. And that's what we're showing here. And not to freak anybody out, but the DOE just came out with a study that showed we have about four years left of useful life on the assets
[00:42:52] that power our grid. Now in this trend it means that a 100 there's going to be a 100 times the amount of blackouts by 2030 if we don't reverse this trend. But what we're able to show not just with power plants but mining metal manufacturing as well as defense assets you can actually extend the useful life of infrastructure in some cases by 30 years and on average it's been about 35. This is extremely important in ensuring
[00:43:18] that we're able to reverse that trend and ensure that America is well positioned to ensure that we lead on the energy and the in the energy race to enable and unlock artificial intelligence. Now, let me summarize this. We spent so much time and I think JD Vance has done a great job at at highlighting how much effort and how much data set have been gathered to power AI models in the digital world. And it's what makes chat GPC so
[00:43:44] addictive. But remember, the physical world has been forgotten about. And our robots are going in to the fog of war to try and decipher and unlock massive amounts of information and data sets that gives America and our allies unfair advantages. Unfair advantages to unlock things that we didn't even realize were there. And if you build software with an ontology based on first principles, gathering the data and building software
[00:44:11] up from there, you're actually able to deliver impactful things for Joe, turning Joe into a PhD scientist or engineer instead of forgetting about him like a lot of Silicon Valley companies have in the past. Unlocking potential physical intelligence data drives um it drives artificial intelligence and that's how you're going to win the AI race. Thank you. [Music] >> My name is Laura Deerdinas and I'm a registered nurse here at Tampa General
[00:44:49] Hospital. The last 17 years I've been able to serve the neurointensive care unit where we care for the most vulnerable and critical care patients. So before utilizing AI, it would take hours to gather information, looking in chart reviews, uh talking to nurses, talking to physicians. We relied on paper, pencil, um a lot of paper stapled together with sometimes outdated data by the time I was done going through uh 32
[00:45:22] patients. and this is how we would try and give reports. Bringing in AI, it has significantly changed the culture on the unit. I had a charge nurse who never gave um a multid-disciplinary round or report out. She came on board. She said, "This is an amazing tool. Look at this. It has all my information already gathered and collected." and she was able to report out on the patients. It was completely user friendly. She's like, "Laura, what
[00:45:57] is this?" It is creating excitement throughout the nursing community. Using AI has provided more time to be with you or your loved one at the bedside where nurses should be. We are the heart of healthcare. >> Matt Troutman. I'm the vice president, general manager for PRL industries, supplier of components for nuclear submarines at our service men and women lives depend on. We are a fully integrated foundry pouring metal all the
[00:46:25] way through finished machine components. 2 months ago, we weren't getting after any of the problems on the shop floor. engineering director told me all his team was doing was quoting a 3-day process to quote apart paper files, old archives, data tables, emails, side communications, all this which ends up getting lost in the fray. Now, using an AI tool, they are getting halfway through that process in minutes frees
[00:46:51] them up to get back out in the floor and do what an engineer does best, which is solve problems to provide the Navy with the best quality products in the shortest amount of time. And this is what AI is going to help us do. Understanding part location and status that is a gamecher. We can now talk very clearly with the customer if that part is now to become the primary focus of the business cuz it's a critically
[00:47:15] needed part for a ship construction. You get notified. It's an automatic notification. We can see the exact status. Here is the impact. How can we be better? How can we do more? And this is how we're answering that call. With AI, we match the speed of the quality management process to the speed of the workforce and the machine capabilities and we will truly see a multi-step change in the amount of product that can
[00:47:40] come out of any company in this supply chain. More jobs for American workers here at Pro. >> My name is Julie Nordberg. I'm a registered nurse leader here at UP Health System Marquette in the heart of Michigan's upper peninsula and we are really the only game in town as we like to say it. The next closest hospital to us that could service us is downstate which is about a 4-hour drive. Prior to using AI, it took a lot of time to go
[00:48:06] through the patients charts to see where they need to be. It took a lot of time just to try to communicate with people. I think that's a fear that everybody has is that AI is going to replace people. But AI in the way it's being used here could never replace our frontline staff. You know, that the vibe is I think it's just one of excitement that everybody's just proud to be part of this and to say that we're doing it here and we're
[00:48:29] honing it in and tweaking it and and using it to enhance our care and using it to help our staff. Having this kind of communication hub and facility snapshot has helped has helped everybody. For the nursing staff, I think being able to see everything in one spot has just revolutionized kind of how they are able to provide care. I don't think anybody is sad to get rid of a meeting. The impact on patients is earlier
[00:48:56] detection, which means earlier treatment, um, which is a better outcome, life-saving for some of them. That's where I think this is going to help us a lot is because we we don't have as much manpower as those big academic centers. So having the AI in the background doing some of that leg work for us is is huge. I joined PCNA in 2018. We have built over 11 billion batteries in the last 8 years. I walked out onto their massive
[00:49:21] production floor for the first time. I knew right then and there I wanted to make this technology accessible for anyone who wanted to learn it. people coming from the tourism industry and the hospitality industry. Quite a few technicians that have fixed slot machines in a past life. People from automotive companies, people who are used to repairing cars, however, have never seen equipment, you know, at this scale and with this complexity. You
[00:49:47] know, we don't really um have to pick and choose what people's backgrounds are because we do have this very powerful learning tool that makes it easy for anyone to be able to enter this industry. It is taking our historical maintenance records, pairing it with our machine data, and is now starting to understand early warning signs of a breakdown, and deploy our technicians to equipment before it ever actually breaks. This
[00:50:14] helps minimize our production losses, keep our technicians safer. We're taking reactive events, turning them into predictive events. We used to honestly lose a lot of technicians because they would lose their confidence, think, "Hey, maybe this isn't for me." I pulled the supervisor off the floor and said, "Hey, you got to come listen to this idea and you have to help us make it better because you're the one who lives it
[00:50:37] every day." And they immediately started suggesting new features. They were telling us what was wrong with the old systems and we were coming up with solutions on the spot. So, this is really helping people feel like they belong here. We don't believe AI should replace human talent. We believe it should elevate it. Our workers are very excited. They have a tool that they can turn to to help them learn at their own
[00:50:59] pace. It really puts the power back into their hands. [Music]
[00:51:16] All right, Christian's joined us from Hillen Valley and 137. And Sean, welcome. >> Thank you. Great to be here. >> Christian, you want to kick us off? >> Yeah. Uh, thanks for having me. It's It's nice to be here. I'm definitely uh feel for the first time like a guesty of the besties. Um, >> don't it up. And, uh, yeah. Uh, this is great. So, Sean, thanks for coming. We were talking a little bit earlier. maybe this is a great place to
[00:51:45] start. Um, obviously we have the good fortune to be investors in Paler for 15 years. We've seen the growth of the company, but particularly lately you've been pushing this messaging. I think it's been incredibly exciting of how AI is not a force for job destruction. It's a force for job creation. It's also a way that you can give superpowers to the average American worker. And obviously, we've seen a little bit of content here
[00:52:05] and how it's already doing that today. >> I want to start by saying many of the workers in the video are actually here today joining. Uh Laura, the nurse from Tampa General, actually brought her 12-year-old daughter. So, I think the ultimate litmus test is not just how excited are the American worker to leverage AI, but how excited are they for their children to exist in an America that's really embraced AI. And
[00:52:24] Julie has four kids, and she would tell you how how much this has not only transformed her view of her job, but the view of her children's future. Uh I I think the the right frame here really is how do we give the American worker superpowers? You know, we should not be aspiring to build things that make them 50% more efficient. They're really 50 times more productive and to use that as our our asymmetry in the competition
[00:52:47] here. You know, our strengths are not only AI, which is clearly an American phenomenon, but also the ingenuity of the American worker. And if you spend time on the factory floor on the front line, you see a very different narrative emerging where you see people are actually excited about these tools. Every single one of those workers to a tea said AI is giving them more time to do what they do best to spend time with
[00:53:06] the patient delivering care to actually build the parts as an engineer to solve the problems not to be caught up in all the coordination and the paperwork that's around these things. Uh that's the future we should be unleashing. >> Can you generalize the adoption curve? What is it about a particular industry or use case that makes it an early adopter versus mid versus late that you're seeing because now that you're
[00:53:29] touching all these different industries. Uh you probably have a good point of view on this. >> Yeah, my my take is actually a different dimension of slicing that which is where do the where does the institution liberate their worker to drive the adoption versus where are they trying to forcefitit some sort of solution top down. You know, AI is a method of unleashing the agency of the worker, the creativity of the individual, and
[00:53:51] they're the ones coming up with these use cases. I mean, Chris was talking about it from Hrien where you'd be surprised at how people with deep mechanical intuition, traditionally considered bluecollar workers, are the ones who are able to pick up the skills, build the applications, innovate on their own processes, and have that spread through the organization. Mhm. And are you seeing that you have to build vertical tools or generalized
[00:54:13] tools for some horizontal kind of set of users somewhere in the organization? >> Well, I think that the opportunity with AI is really that you can unleash what's different about your business than all the others. So there there's a degree to which you can have uh generalized solutions, but there's a lot of alpha to be captured by understanding what's unique about how we do things. How do we lever up human taste? Everyone is afraid
[00:54:35] of AI replacing the human. That's not what I'm seeing. I'm seeing it it make the the most the the person with the greatest taste more valuable and an ability to spread that to the breath of the organization. >> Let's talk about um something beyond taste which is also like knowledge and skill and tell us about AI inside of healthcare. Um I think that a lot of people probably think that we have an incredibly cutting edge system of tools
[00:55:03] and software that helps doctors and nurses actually provision great care. What's the actual reality that you guys are seeing? >> Well, sadly, I think with the forced adoption of EHRs, what we saw is roughly a havinging in the productivity of how many patients you can see per hour. >> A having >> a having. Yes. So, we became half as productive. And we really need to, you know, the opportunity is to work backwards from what is the care that
[00:55:26] needs to be delivered? How do we build the tools around that? How do we help the the the nurses, the care staff spend more time with the patients and less time with the computer? And do you guys see a world where in order to facilitate that end market versus a different end market you have a ensemble of many many many different techniques and approaches in AI or do you think it all sort of gets form fit into this one trillion
[00:55:50] parameter huge ginormous thing that kind of tries to do everything? >> I think the cardality of agents and models is very high. I think there will always be alpha to be achieved you know improved differentiation improved outcomes by specializing to the use case. Now, it's great to start with the general models, but you will specialize over time. >> And do you feel pressure to do that now or do you think that'll just be a
[00:56:11] natural evolution over time as >> Yeah, I think it's a journey that people kind of get on like you realize like, wow, look how much better things have gotten with this. Now, how do I go get the next incremental piece of performance out of it? >> You know, I'm just having this thought as we sit here and discuss this. If you think about any experience we have in service that has a long wait time where we feel like we got more time with the
[00:56:33] practitioner, it's the perfect place for AI to create more abundance and healthcare and education are the two that that come to mind uh where people could just offload their chores and the people who are getting the service can use AI to maybe start the conversation on second base or third base. What other industries are you seeing after healthcare education where AI can have that dramatic of an effect where the six
[00:56:58] week wait time to see a doctor the three or four other students who are getting tutored are ahead of you and maybe you don't need as much help so you don't you never get the tutoring. The >> the place I'm most excited about it is really in reindustrialization. So it because there's so much dwell time in the value chains around >> what does that mean dwell time in industrial >> where you're just waiting for someone
[00:57:20] else to figure out how to approve something or the coordination costs mean that it's essentially dead weight loss. >> Give an example there. Yeah. >> Uh you saw it with the the submarine uh industrialbased partners there where they're working on quoting a part to the Navy. That means you have to go gather all of this data. You have to look at historical archives. All of that is time. You're not making a part or