[00:26:55] targeted at America's greatest production challenges, submarines, ships, and munitions. So by the end of this year, we'll have three facilities up and running. Our headquarters, Factory 2 and Factory 3 in LA. But as we re-industrialize the country powered by AI, like where is this really going to get us to? Well, to solve this problem for the country and fulfill the mission, we need to have factories in every state. And you got to
[00:27:18] remember that AI in manufacturing is creating thousands of jobs because we offshored everything. And we need this productivity boost to give our nation the capacity it needs. Reshore all these jobs, pull them back into the middle of the country, and make sure that we're creating millions and millions of jobs along the way. Thank you for having me. It was a pleasure to be here. >> Chris, I think we wanted to kick this
[00:27:44] off. We have a couple minutes to just um cover what you've introduced which is I think like a really important opportunity. China has roughly 3 million factories. US has 250,000. The assumption is they've got cheap labor. Looks like they've got automation. Things are very different on the ground than what folks read about as we try and compete. What industries are going to be first from a manufacturing perspective
[00:28:06] that we can actually compete successfully and do we need trade tariffs in order to succeed on the competitive landscape? So I think there's two really important points. One is there's industries that we have to reshore. Specifically in defense, we have to produce submarines and ships and munitions. Uh we have to produce things like rare earth magnets and drones. We just have to do it. Um the tariffs really help. And this trade policy is
[00:28:30] really important because you got to understand that yes, China is more competitive than us, but the CCP also nationally subsidizes the cost of energy, the cost of raw material. And because we've kind of degraded this capacity like not having nuclear in the US like we can't compete on those raw inputs. So it'll start with our most critical industries first. But I think as AI goes through manufacturing you'll create millions of jobs and that will
[00:28:51] allow us to reshore more commercial volume not just in defense. And I think that's the most important thing. >> And you've talked about this like degrading you know sort of infrastructure and what that means in terms of workforce but then how reshoring also requires this like upskilling. I know you guys have this like associate named Owen that you guys took I think like literally straight out of Home Depot. Can you like give us a
[00:29:07] little bit of his story and just like what that represents in terms of you guys upskilling labor? >> It's it's really incredible. So, as I said in the presentation, 100% of our people never set foot inside a factory before. And I think we really didn't do a great job as a nation by convincing everyone they needed a four-year college degree to have a really good job. And we've hired people that, you know, packing shelves at Home Depot. Now
[00:29:26] they're running 10 machines at once. And actually, what we are seeing is that most of those people when they're exposed to software or AI, they're very smart. And we've promoted a lot of those people into leadership management or software engineering roles. And I think re-industrialization with AI is about creating new jobs, but also reattaching people to the Silicon Valley economy and not just having it on the coast and the
[00:29:47] cities. H >> how um are you going to compete with people having gig labor and making 30 40 bucks an hour being a door dasher? Um and we have the lowest unemployment in our lifetimes, 4% right now. Is it realistic to find all this labor out there or do we have to have some people immigrate to this country in order to fill those jobs? >> For for us specifically in defense, um we we can't we have no choice in immigration because it's a regulated
[00:30:18] environment. So we have to upskill Americans. >> Secondly, what we see maybe not in LA or the coastal cities, but across the country, there's lots of underemployment. Some of our favorite people have desk jobs where they're a parallegal and they were filling out forms and they hate it and they want to come in factories and work on the national mission. And I think for us it's a lot about getting people inspired. And then secondly, with this
[00:30:37] level of productivity jump, we can actually afford to give people incredibly good healthcare and incredibly good pay. And I think a lot of Americans want to go back to work in a real environment that's for the national mission. >> You uh you showed some incredible images and video of these very intricate machines. are do you make the machines that then make all the machines or is there a supply chain risk as >> there is a huge supply chain risk so we
[00:31:02] actually invented via the air force a lot of these advanced machines um and we forgot how to make them so the main sources of supply are actually our allies in you know China is number one we don't buy for them because they've got cyber security holes all over the place Germany South Korea Japan the insight that we had was they're actually just really dumb computers and software and AI can actually upscale and
[00:31:24] overpower them um and really have a lead. But it is a huge supply chain risk of not building the machines that build the machines in the country anymore. >> Right. To economically compete though, do you I I was trying to parse if you were asking for the government to give you support since the Chinese government is underwriting their companies with free energy. Are you explicitly asking the government to help with say paying
[00:31:44] for reskills training or um maybe in some way deferring your energy cost or can you make this economically work? We make it economically work because in the US there are really two markets. There's the stuff that has to be onshore for defense and aerospace and then there's this offshore market that's 10 times larger. Um you know commercial aircraft, a lot of that is in China. For us we can compete in the US because we've got to
[00:32:08] create all these new advanced jobs because we just don't have the skills anymore. If we want to reshore the commercial volume that is not regulated to be onshore, we have to do tariffs and economic policy because it's not an even playing field. It is right now companies versus the CCP. >> What would that look like in in terms of execution? You would want uh them to pick up the retraining, the energy cost, part of their salaries.
[00:32:32] >> It's it's really three things. It's the cost of energy. It's the cost of raw materials, aluminum, steel. 90% of the cost of that is actually energy. And if we level that playing field, then we can go compete in what we're great at, which is the, you know, American software and the American spirit and AI powered workforce. >> So the silver bullet is energy. >> Yeah. And then tell us about the actual software. Do you have a team that's
[00:32:51] writing a lot of control systems and or AI models themselves or you're taking things that are off the shelf and you're fine-tuning them? How are you how are you doing it? >> Unfortunately, because American manufacturing software is 30 years behind Silicon Valley, we had to build everything ourselves from scheduling systems to the deep tech. And the key insight that we had is the faster we grow, the more data we are labeling,
[00:33:12] right? So we always do things 80% automated with a human in the loop. And as we label this complex manufacturing data, you know, this is where our AI models actually kick in because manufacturing has been offline for 30 years. So there is no stack overflow. There's no GitHub code base to train a model on. We had to train it ourselves off our own label data as our experts were ticking and tying the automation. I
[00:33:33] mean histo like traditional automation is purpose-built, does one thing. A lot of engineering goes into making it do that one thing really well. Are you leveraging things like to Chimat's question vision action models that allow you more extensibility with one particular piece of machinery and like or when does that start to happen from a tech perspective in your view? >> Right. Right from the start. So the way
[00:33:55] oddly that customers translate data to their supply chain is by giving them 20page PDFs full of hieroglyphics. So we actually have to train huge vision models on interpreting that. What does that mean? It's it's very complicated and it usually takes an expert 50 hours to pour over that. So, it's vision models, it's training engines on the data, it's also training engines on reinforcement learning of, hey, we we
[00:34:15] made a part with automation. Was it high quality or not? Did it actually work? And embedding all of these in the workflow real time is is the magic trick here with AI. >> And you're not doing this stuff just like you know on the coast, right? Your next factory is sort of more middle America. Like how do you end up choosing where to put that? >> The most important reason why we selected Arizona was because of permitting, energy, and regulations. You
[00:34:34] know, we got to go fast, right? We got to build this in 6 months and then we will expand into the middle of the country kind of left to right on the map and I think that's the most important thing is we're going to be able to expand into all these cities and states where the manufacturing jobs were destroyed and we're going to bring him back. >> Are you guys investors? >> Oh yeah, just led the uh series C which
[00:34:51] we just announced last week and uh join the board much to uh Chrisin. >> You're on his board? >> I'm on his board. Yeah. Is that terrifying? >> It is very terrifying. >> How long have you guys known each other? >> Uh too long. Yeah, too long. Yeah, I was board observer for a while and uh you know tried to avoid getting the official seat. >> Uh you got a date for a while and then now we got married. >> Well, Chris, thanks for being here
[00:35:09] today. >> Thanks for hosting me, guys. Pleasure. >> Yeah, thanks for the education. >> Thanks, man. >> There is a huge fire going on right now at Philadelphia Energy Solutions. Oh my gosh. Again, look at this guys. Look at this video right now. Today, the Navy remains a formidable fighting force, but even officers within the service have questioned its readiness. >> Developing right now, gushing for hours with no end in sight. Thousands of
[00:35:37] barrels of crude oil spilling from a tank. Uh the report does an estimate of what the need is to bring the overall grade up to a B, which is what the society sort of determines to be adequate, and it's like $4.59 trillion. Heat
[00:36:03] [Applause]
[00:36:11] up here. [Music] A company that started in my college dorm is now a company that manages over 500,000 of the world's most critical pieces of infrastructure. Now, at Gecko, we build robots and AI models to help unlock physical the physical world. Now you see we build when we rebuild robots we wanted to build them that could fly, swim, crawl and walk on any surface to gather the most amazing information and data sets that have been
[00:36:57] forgotten about the physical data layers. Now all those data layers are incredibly valuable when you're able to unlock and use AI models to drive incredible and important outcomes. Now, I started the company in the energy sector, deploying the technology to help prevent catastrophic failures in downtown power plants. Now, we've to expand into mining, metals, and manufacturing as well as for the defense. And so, we're helping to deter
[00:37:25] conflict by getting ships out of dry dock on time and not uh and patrolling this the the borders. Also, we are helping the air force ensure that planes are in the air and not in hangers. And then just last week when the president was in Pittsburgh, my hometown, we just signed an amazing deal that ensures that we can help revitalize manufacturing in the United States again by helping to build ships and subs. Now, the energy sector has been
[00:37:51] incredible and we in a lot of other sectors as well. But what I begun to realize is that the most impactful thing that Gecko Robotics can do to help ensure that we uh deter conflict and our most impactful for national security is actually in the energy sector. You see, President Trump is absolutely right and his executive order today calls out an extremely important um extremely important reality that the companies
[00:38:17] that can unlock energy are going to be the ones that can dominate in the AI race. However, as you can see from the graph here, China is on pace by 2030 to 3x the amount of generation by against the US. But this isn't the whole story. You see, we constantly think about AI as an energy consumer. However, I'm here to tell you that artificial intelligence can actually be used and unlocking energy production in ways that you never
[00:38:46] seen before. Now, inputs really matter to being able to unlock this potential. And CEO after CEO that I talked to in the energy, mining, manufacturing, and defense sectors will tell you that we're trying to figure out how to unlock artificial intelligence to supercharge everything. However, the value is just not there. And it's no wonder the consistent common factor between each one of these sectors is Joe. Joe is out
[00:39:12] there gathering information by hand, trying to diagnose and get physical data to drive really impactful decisions. But it's important to understand that Silicon Valley uh Silicon Valley artificial intelligence researchers and software engineers, they can't do much with data sets coming off of the backs of Joe and Joe's been armed with the same technology for the past century. So, it's no wonder that impact isn't
[00:39:37] being unlocked in these sectors. And unfortunately for Joe, it's a very dangerous job as well. And someone dying doing this job was actually one of the things that inspired me to build Gecko. We have to give Joe better tools in the new century. So, what I'm going to walk you through right now is an example of exactly how we do that for the power sector. We send in robots. Robots that are gathering information and data sets about the
[00:40:01] physical environment. In this case, a natural gas power plant. We're understanding what the physical environment looks like. And then we send in other robots like this dog over here. Now the robot dog is gathering operational data sets to help supercharge cantaliever our AI powered platform where all the data sets are coming into. You see we sell an operations platform and data sets gathered in the physical world is what's
[00:40:25] enabling that. We also send in wall climbing robots and you can see the wall climbing robots to your left and to your right. Now these robots are going into the physical environments and gathering health data all while the app while the uh power plant is actually online. Now the health data is really important because we have to understand process health data to be able to optimize and feed into AI models. But again this data set just
[00:40:50] never existed before. So we had to go out and actually get it physically in the real world. So robots like this supercharge our ability to be able to drive models to create largest amount of efficiency gains. So this power plant for example is supposed to be operating at 620 megawatts but it's not reaching its capacity. It's only operating at 580. So how do you unlock that? Well, when you have all this information and data sets
[00:41:15] that we've captured with robots, plus all the data sets that customers have, you're actually able to drive optimization to see how to impact efficiency and production. And so what this AI model is doing is looking at the data sets from the robot dogs as well as data sets from the health the health data from the robots to pinpoint that there's actually a steam issue going into the turbine. Now, an ability to fix
[00:41:40] these things has actually been able to unlock for this site and for many others that we work on a 1% improvement to efficiency. And this is just the first place that we looked. Now, it's also important to understand that the assets that power the grid are failing at a really fast rate. Now, this power plant had assets like this tank that was decaying at an at incredible rates. It was supposed to be reaching retirement pretty soon. But we were able
[00:42:03] to determine predictively how to extend the useful life of this asset by 10, 20, and 30 years from all this data set. It's really important to understand when you culminate all the kinds of impacts that you can have from this this kind of technology, you get things like this efficiency gains on the dozens of power plants that we've been able to work at. If you extrapolate that across the thermal fleet in the US, that'll give
[00:42:28] you 11.9 gawatt of new power without putting a shovel in the ground. The energy is able to be unlocked using artificial intelligence. It's really important to understand the statement. AI shouldn't just consume, it should create energy. And that's what we're showing here. And not to freak anybody out, but the DOE just came out with a study that showed we have about four years left of useful life on the assets
[00:42:52] that power our grid. Now in this trend it means that a 100 there's going to be a 100 times the amount of blackouts by 2030 if we don't reverse this trend. But what we're able to show not just with power plants but mining metal manufacturing as well as defense assets you can actually extend the useful life of infrastructure in some cases by 30 years and on average it's been about 35. This is extremely important in ensuring