[00:14:04] generation to happen on federal lands. And that's going to be coupled with all sorts of other efforts to really accelerate the velocity that we can build power and ultimately run these data centers. So let's talk about before we run out of time one of the most important issues which is the talent wars. >> Yeah, we um going to stay focused on AI here. We'll leave the border and deportations off the table, but we'll
[00:14:26] talk about something super important which is recruiting talent from around the world. >> This administration, we've gotten different signals and obviously it's a very controversial issue here in the United States. What do we have to do in terms of immigration and let's just call it recruitment because that's really what it is recruiting the best and brightest from around the world to come work on our team as opposed to say team
[00:14:45] China. >> What do we have to do? What is the administration's philosophy on recruiting the world's best AI talent >> in the action plan? I think what we bring to light and I don't think it's talked about enough is to power and successfully drive continued American leadership in this domain. It is not simply about having the greatest a engineers but is also having all the other parts of the workforce which needs
[00:15:08] to drive this forward. You know we talked to some companies like Caruso and others who are building these large infrastructure builds around the US. The challenge that they're facing is in electricians and HVAC talent and the and the AI plan itself spends a lot of time and energy directing um various agencies whether it's department of labor and others who have these reskilling and and programs to sort of train these people
[00:15:29] up to be able to fill that void. So for us it's about attracting here to the US the greatest scientists and engineers but it's also to be able to train the American workforce to be able to do the necessary jobs put that forward. >> Michael um what's the philosophy going forward on the thing you mentioned just before this which is there's these enormously valuable data sets that sit inside the DOE that sit inside of FDA
[00:15:51] where presumably if we made them available to private industry particularly American private industry the gains could be incredible. Is that an open-source philosophy? Is that a licensing philosophy? How do you think it should best serve the American economy to get this stuff out there? >> Generally, the government has taken an open- source approach to this. And the general challenge that we've seen over the years is there's been a lot of lip
[00:16:14] service to, hey, let's unlock data for the American people. And the main challenge is, and for all of us who are in AI, the format of that data itself actually matters a lot. if it's like dirty, nasty data that isn't homogenized in any way, it's not particularly helpful. And I think that's going to be a big effort that the DOE is going to Department of Energy is going to try to do to make this better and possible. And
[00:16:35] what was great in the uh recent legislation that was passed in BBB was and actually $150 million ticket to the Department of Energy to build an AI for science program that very much is going to be working on this exact problem. Should there be federal preeemption on AI regulatory um schemes? So, there's been a conversation about doing this to ensure I think right now there's over a thousand state laws that have been
[00:16:59] proposed or passed that have some regulatory effect on AI and tech related technology. Should the federal government preempt all of that and raise it up? >> I think generally preeemption is an issue that comes up very often broadly in technology. You have this issue with uh privacy for many years. What we're trying to face today and what we talk about in the plan itself are actions that the executive branch can take
[00:17:19] itself. And a lot of preeemption discussion revolves around what Congress can or can't do. So we don't necessarily lean hard on that because we focus on things we can accomplish. >> Right. >> And just to just to add to that, so it's true the the action plan doesn't speak to that issue um Freeberg very much. But I I do think there is a real threat to national security that's brewing by virtue of the fact that like you said,
[00:17:39] we've got a thousand bills going through state legislatores right now, all regulating AI in different ways. If this continues, we're going to have a patchwork of 50 different state regulatory regimes as opposed to one seamless national network. And look, China is they've declared that AI is a national priority for them. It's they understand how strategic it is. And I think if we hobble our AI innovation with a patchwork of 50 different state
[00:18:03] regimes, I think it's going to hurt us. So I don't, you know, we weren't ready to declare a policy yet in the action plan, but I think it's something that's going to have to be looked at uh over the next year or so. >> Thanks for thanks for joining us, Michael. Everyone, the director of the Office of Science and Technology at the White House. Well done. >> Thanks. >> Great job. Pleasure. Thank you everyone to the besties in the
[00:18:26] Hill Valley Forum for the warm welcome. Uh I'm Chris Power, the founder and CEO of Hadrien and I'm here to talk to you today about our company. The mission is to re-industrialize America. We do this by building AI powered factories in the United States. So you might ask why is this important and why should you care about manufacturing in the United States? Well, what I realized before I came to this country is that we're in a global
[00:18:49] race. So every great nation gets built by having the best industrial power first. That gives you the best military, usually the navy. Then you end up with the reserve currency after a conflict and you kind of rule the free world in what we've called Pax Americana. Like all great companies, you kind of get lazy through that success and you end up offshoring all your heavy industrials to the developing country and then when a conflict comes around,
[00:19:14] you're kind of in real trouble because you offshored the thing that gave you the power in the first place, which is heavy industry. The last three times this happened, it was a pretty good trade for the West. It went from the Dutch, the British, the American Empire when we won World War II. This time around, in this kind of two decade period where we're fighting the AI race, the climate, settling the stars, it's really the United States
[00:19:36] versus the CCP. And bear in mind that we won World War II not because we had a defense industrial base necessarily, but because we were the industrial powerhouse of the world. And when there was a time of crisis, we had all our commercial manufacturing companies pivot to defense when we really needed them the most. And you had, you know, watch makers making warship navigation equipment. Ford was switched from building cars to building
[00:19:59] bombers. And it was because of this industrial power, you know, our tanks weren't so great. We just had tons of them. This is how we won. Unfortunately, since the 1970s through to the 2020s, we've basically hollowed out the middle of America and offshored every bit of manufacturing we possibly can. This started with Nixitting opening up China, let them into the WTO. They were the world's factory. This is like a
[00:20:22] huge strategic mistake and it's completely hollowed out good jobs in America as well as left us in a very strategically dangerous position in terms of our industrial power. So, while China de-industrialized us, they industrialized themselves and they treated manufacturing not as economics but a national security priority. And now we're in this 20-year window where staring down the threat of Taiwan, we're in real trouble. So just how far behind
[00:20:46] China are we? Well, in munitions, China has automated factories that can produce a thousand a year, whereas we run out of missiles in the first seven days of any war game conflict. And then we can't reproduce that ammunition for like 3 years. In ship building, they're 200 times greater than us. We produced a grand total of five ships last year. Pharmaceuticals are all offshore. Drones, iPhones, we don't make any of
[00:21:12] them. And bear in mind in pharmaceuticals the CCP makes all our antibiotics. This is why industrialization is so important. And more importantly, this gets back to the AI race for talent is while the US is still the global powerhouse in software and AI talent, we made China into the global powerhouse for manufacturing talent. And what we realized through building this company is that while US defense manufacturing, which was all we
[00:21:37] have left because we offshored everything else, is really important because we let all those jobs go, the entire base is basically a bunch of patriotic Americans that still know how to do skilled trades that are in their 60s are retiring faster and faster and faster. So the underpinnings of our entire defense industrial base is this American talent that knows how to do the job, but the rest of the country forgot
[00:21:57] how to manufacture. This is a screenshot of one of China's munitions factories. You can Google this online. And it's a myth that it's just lowcost labor in China anymore. They are very advanced at production. Whereas in the United States, underpinning all our defense primes and our industrial base, we basically have skilled Americans that are retiring faster and faster and faster, supporting 100200 billion industries across all these different
[00:22:20] ways to bend, cut ship metal that you need to then put it into drones, ships, satellites, rockets. So while China is racing ahead of us, we're really falling far behind and we forgot how to manufacture. So what we realized was we have to build full stack AI powered factories to solve this problem. Secondly, the number one issue is this massive skilled talent shortage. Remember if you look at ship building or
[00:22:45] any of these other industries, we are begging for millions and millions of welders or machinists that we you could give me a billion dollars and we can't hire them in this country anymore because we lost that skill. the production not having inventory is real deterrence and that you've got to do this by re-industrializing the country to create more jobs not replace them or automate away and that it's always about
[00:23:05] national security not economics so we set out to solve this problem by building automated factories driven by AI in the US 3 years ago when we started this journey we figured out how are we going to do this well the answer was just start running a factory and build all the AI software at the same time which was a hilariously painful journey in the early days of the company this is what factory 1 looked like We partnered with some of
[00:23:25] America's greatest aerospace companies to really beta test this for a good 18 months. What can we automate? What can't we? This is one of our first tiny parts that we ship to America's greatest rocket provider. And now we're up to the point where we're building whole products. We built Opus, which is a full stack platform for AI autonomy of factories that does a couple of really important things. In 2024, we launched Factory 2, once out
[00:23:52] of this beta phase, scaled 10x in a single year with the fastest growing manufacturer in the country, and now lucky enough to support America's greatest companies, uh, both startups, defense primes. And this is what the most advanced factory, in our opinion, looks like in America today. This is our scaled factory 2 in LA. Here you see cutting metal coming from raw material, shaving this down into micron precision
[00:24:19] tolerance components that go on rockets, satellites, jets, and drones. And what you see as you go through this is in legacy industry, in a de-industrialized nation, you've got really skilled people on every machine. Hadrien's advanced factories look and operate more like a data center. We're really proud of having pulled this off, but the journey is not over yet because again, this is a whole of nation 100 to200 billion problem.
[00:24:42] So where do we actually get to and what sort of productivity gains can you get in AI and manufacturing and are we creating more jobs? So firstly, most factories in the US run at only a 20% uptime. It's not really that productive. We have a four times jump in manufacturing productivity. Secondly, and more importantly, we have a 10x jump in workforce productivity. And again, because we have a such a scarcity of skilled talent in this
[00:25:06] country, you actually need that AI powered jump to even create the capacity in this nation to be able to build ships, drones, and rockets. The second important thing is speed to get people in these jobs. So, if you're an advanced manufacturer, it can take you up to a decade to get really good at what you do. Whereas at Hri, we've managed to make it so that we can train anyone in 30 days. And most importantly,
[00:25:27] 100% of our workforce are from non-factory backgrounds. They've never set foot inside a factory before. These are folks straight out of high school. They're retired from the military. They had a desk job. They were a nurse or bus driver from, you know, 18 up to 40. And this is the most important thing that people have got to realize about the power of advanced AI in manufacturing is that we need this productivity boost to
[00:25:48] just be able to compete with China and catch up on these skill trades that we lost. And this is the most important thing that AI is doing for us is enabling huge, huge workforce growth. So, where are we at? You know, we've been on this journey. In 2025, we're going multicategory, multiactory, and I'll show you our new factory that's launching AI powered in six months in the great state of Arizona, as well as
[00:26:11] launching a dedicated gigafactory. And you can think about this as like everyone in defense and aerospace needs a Tesla Model 3 factory. This is our beautiful uh new facility. It's about four times the size of the one in LA, launching by Christmas. We signed a lease a couple of weeks ago. It'll be online in 6 months. And the most important thing is we'll be creating 350 plus new AI powered jobs in scarce talent industries where America
[00:26:34] just needs this leverage to get ahead. The other thing if you listen to the secretary of the Navy and re-industrialize what is the number one problem in ship building, submarine base and munitions, it's actually that there's millions and millions of jobs that we need to fill because we don't have skilled trades anymore. We don't have the volume of the people. So we need this productivity boost. So in 2026, we're launching advanced factories
[00:26:55] targeted at America's greatest production challenges, submarines, ships, and munitions. So by the end of this year, we'll have three facilities up and running. Our headquarters, Factory 2 and Factory 3 in LA. But as we re-industrialize the country powered by AI, like where is this really going to get us to? Well, to solve this problem for the country and fulfill the mission, we need to have factories in every state. And you got to
[00:27:18] remember that AI in manufacturing is creating thousands of jobs because we offshored everything. And we need this productivity boost to give our nation the capacity it needs. Reshore all these jobs, pull them back into the middle of the country, and make sure that we're creating millions and millions of jobs along the way. Thank you for having me. It was a pleasure to be here. >> Chris, I think we wanted to kick this
[00:27:44] off. We have a couple minutes to just um cover what you've introduced which is I think like a really important opportunity. China has roughly 3 million factories. US has 250,000. The assumption is they've got cheap labor. Looks like they've got automation. Things are very different on the ground than what folks read about as we try and compete. What industries are going to be first from a manufacturing perspective
[00:28:06] that we can actually compete successfully and do we need trade tariffs in order to succeed on the competitive landscape? So I think there's two really important points. One is there's industries that we have to reshore. Specifically in defense, we have to produce submarines and ships and munitions. Uh we have to produce things like rare earth magnets and drones. We just have to do it. Um the tariffs really help. And this trade policy is
[00:28:30] really important because you got to understand that yes, China is more competitive than us, but the CCP also nationally subsidizes the cost of energy, the cost of raw material. And because we've kind of degraded this capacity like not having nuclear in the US like we can't compete on those raw inputs. So it'll start with our most critical industries first. But I think as AI goes through manufacturing you'll create millions of jobs and that will
[00:28:51] allow us to reshore more commercial volume not just in defense. And I think that's the most important thing. >> And you've talked about this like degrading you know sort of infrastructure and what that means in terms of workforce but then how reshoring also requires this like upskilling. I know you guys have this like associate named Owen that you guys took I think like literally straight out of Home Depot. Can you like give us a