[00:34:28] >> [laughter] >> I mean, I found it later, but that that didn't Hit that MIT thesis? Yeah, yeah. >> Wow. So, we said, "Okay, let's look at the Oh, and they were they were saying they need to spin off some of those parts of the pulping part. And we said, "Okay, let's buy that." And we bought that as an experiment. And we did real well with it. And so, we said, "Wow, they they have other because that was a commodity business
[00:34:59] and they were trying to get their price earnings ratio it was like six and if they became more of a consumer products, they could get it up to nine. So, we proposed we met with them and and proposed that uh we uh uh we buy the the uh the commodity part and we'll pay them a a high enough price that then they can be all uh consumer products and get their price and we showed them all the economics and they said, "That's fine, but we'll be
[00:35:34] cons- sued for constructive fraud because we we all have this all these lawsuits against us and and uh and so, we can't do it, but we like the value." And so, we went home and says, "Well, okay, what if we just offered the whole thing?" And the couple of them were getting ready to retire and and the senior officers, so they were really liking it. >> Uh And they were kicked out of all the board meetings from then
[00:36:03] >> [laughter] >> on, but anyway, so we we sold them and that was the time when money was tight and stuff, so nobody came in and and topped us. I'll give you just one funny story. We sent one of our people in to to be the CEO, Joe Moller, who had been president of the company. And uh and and and he They had it was totally top-down bureaucratic. They were in Atlanta, they had this 51-story building. Was it 51? You can correct me.
[00:36:42] That's right. Yeah, you got it. And and you they had a private elevator to get up there. And you didn't have to wear coat and tie, but if if you came up to visit all the management was on this 51st floor. And you had to put on a coat and tie and get permission to come up there. And so Joe immediately kicked them all out. Well, we fired a bunch of them. And then sent the remaining ones down to work with their groups.
[00:37:11] And >> floor. >> And and regular floor and then turned it all into offices. I mean, into meeting rooms open to anybody. And so that I mean, you ask about how you get culture change. A lot of it is a signals like that. Particularly when a bunch of them get fired for being so bureaucratic and hierarchical. >> say that that business unit operates like the rest of Koch Industries today? Oh, absolutely. >> But how long did it take
[00:37:37] I'll I'll just say like that is such a rare and difficult thing to pull off. I mean, there's just countless stories of acquisitions where the acquirer thinks that they have culture, thinks that they know how to transfer culture. And literally no one seems to be able to do it. This was one of the insights from Warren Buffett is you find great managers, you let them continue to operate as owners of that business and
[00:37:59] they get some profit share or whatnot. And they've got a durable moat, so he can make a long-term investment and he just leaves them in Yeah. Yeah, but that's to say that wouldn't work for us. The stuff we bought Let me let let me give give another one if I could that's was even more difficult. And that is uh uh sadly, my my father died not too long after I came with the company in 1967 and we had owned an interest in a small
[00:38:28] refinery in Minnesota. And and so but 2 years later we were able to buy it. And uh and it was not being operated very well because the management had left the union control how it was run and so it was run very inefficiently. And so the first thing we tried to do is change the work rules. So they went out on strike. And by the way that was at the start of my honeymoon. Thanks a lot, guys. And it was violent. I mean they they ran
[00:39:10] a switch engine and tried to knock down one of our units. They shot high-powered rifles in there. And they blocked the gates. I mean it was impossible to get in there. We had to take helicopter but we we were successful in operating without the union workers for 9 months bringing people in from other plants and it operated better than they did. So finally we got the work rules changed. And then we uh then we said, "Okay, we're going to
[00:39:47] empower the employees. We're going to change the culture." Now you think the Georgia Pacific was tough this was much tougher than that. And and so we we we were worked and worked on it to try to make their jobs better get their opinions, get them to work as teams, get them to come up with innovations and when they did we would reward them and we got the unions to to agree with that. And and like like one they said a group of them
[00:40:18] said God, we're buying all these spare parts we need. Uh we can if you if you build a machine shop, we can do it cheaper and faster. And they did. And then other things they saved ton of money for us, made things more efficient. And now the culture there is fantastic. You I mean I mean we're talking about we're not talking about Wichita, we're talking about Minnesota. So I mean we're so proud of what they've done and it just uh
[00:40:52] it still blows me away how how much they've taken these principles to heart and using them to make that place so it's so we've increased the capacity tenfold and it's one of the best refineries in the country. >> Pop, wouldn't you say that um I mean the common theme on all these cuz we have the same story on Molex, you know, similar similar but different than Georgia Pacific. This was a technology company a connector and cabling and connector
[00:41:22] company one of the largest in the world um that makes products in your iPhone and medtech products, your automobile. And um when we bought that in 2013, it was a paradigm that needed to be changed. You know, you described Georgia Pacific top-down versus bottom-up. There was a lot of that too, but it was top line thinking versus bottom line thinking. It was all about revenue growth, right? This is a technology company and it was
[00:41:48] also a public company for 30 plus years as well. Cuz that was what the market rewarded them for. And so like the whole the stock price the public versus private uh discussion is interesting here and it just what we've learned is it takes a hell of a lot longer than you think to change the culture. And almost in every case, probably Pop, tell me if you agree with this, but in almost every case it requires changing leadership
[00:42:14] that has the paradigm of bottom-up empowerment and that learns and applies the principles. Almost every time when we fail, it comes down to ignoring the principles. You can that's what the the book is about. You can kind of reverse engineer these stories like well, we missed that principle, we missed this principle. Um but it comes down to talent and the right people with the right mindset. And I'll want to share
[00:42:36] just one story with you that really um shows like how we apply this at Coke. Um he talked about our talent vision being um you start with um basically culture first, you know, skill second, values first, skill second. I always add a third dimension to that as well. Values first, skill second, credentials last. And that is a very different a mindset than than most companies cuz most companies I think look at it and say I
[00:43:04] want I want the guys, you know, that have the 4.0 from the Ivy League school and all that. And there's some incredibly smart, obviously, folks from that, but by by our um experience and also is one of the reasons why we stayed in Wichita Kansas is that we can basically hire the farm team. Right, kids that have grown up on the farm that have that contribution motivated mindset that work their tails off and want to come in and make a
[00:43:32] contribution as opposed to coming in expecting all this stuff and coming in with more of an entitlement mindset. So, we um case in point, our CIO today is named Jared Benson. Um he start his first interaction with Coke was base striping lines in our parking lot. So, no college degree whatsoever, but he found his way into Coke cuz he demonstrated that hey, he knows a little bit about data science and he could help
[00:43:59] us. This is about 20 years ago. And then ultimately he came in, he proved himself. He was running circles around a lot of the team and like just to you know, contribution mindset, adding value. He saw the cybersecurity risk and that wave coming, built a whole capability to protect us from cyber attacks, and then now he's CIO of the company. Guy with no college degree. So I mean, that kind of mindset in terms of
[00:44:26] our talent vision and like that values first and someone that just wants to come in and they they just love the job and they want to make a difference. >> Do you actually codify these principles and everyone at the company has a handbook that lists them out and then they're part of the assessment process for quarterly or annual reviews with people? >> Yeah, I mean, obviously there's the book and he's this is his fifth book. It's my
[00:44:49] first, but but so good profit science of success. We have our values >> best book because of Jack. >> [laughter] >> Hey Brian, the one we did is pretty good, too. Hugs will like that. Right. Um But yeah, no, there is a there's a discipline, right? And and really it comes down to the leaders taking it seriously and their leaders first responsibility is to help their people. Okay, I'm going to put my analyst hat on
[00:45:16] for a second. And I'm going to say my observation would I would create a theory. We could test the theory right now that being in Wichita being founder or owner operated and you know, having this ability to be isolated from a monoculture. I just feel like Silicon Valley, a lot of companies replicate each other. You have to kind of there's this term that's being used a lot now, over socialization. You have to operate like everyone around you or
[00:45:46] you're not part of the you have to fund raise in the right way and do these deals. You have to hire people this way. You have to do this sort of vesting schedule, this sort of equity structure. Everyone's the same. And if you don't, you're kind of a weirdo, but by being in Wichita, you don't really have that problem. You can think your own way. You can challenge yourselves. You can debate. you can come up with your own
[00:46:04] principles without feeling like everyone else is conforming to the groups around you. But they can because there are a bunch in Silicon Valley that are. They're challenged. Yeah. So they're not all that way. >> They're not all. Yeah, and this is what >> it is it always been a competitive advantage? I mean, did you ever think to move the headquarters to New York City or >> No. No, but the main thing the we've we've never thought of that.
[00:46:27] But but what we've Sorry about that. I mean, there are advantages of being in New York City. I mean, you have a great mayor now, so we're good to go. But anyway, so we we that's a competitive competitive advantage of us. That'll be a competitive >> But but this is No, but the main the main threat we've had is we we had So I was wanting to go pop take us public. And I said it'd be over my dead body, and some of them thought well that would
[00:46:58] be a good idea. Just like they're thinking that about Trump. Well, a lot of people thought still think about I get a lot of nice uh notices of my imminent death. >> [laughter] >> And and they say, "Okay, your brother died. We hope it was uh I know it's painful, but I hope it was slow and painful, and I hope Charles is even worse." That's the kind of crap we get. Uh but anyway, what the the biggest is the uh push has been for us to go public.
[00:47:32] God, we'll be worth so much and stuff. And but it it And I I think our view we never could have accomplished what we've had. First of all, we never have would have built a principle-based framework. And then we we never would have been able to pull off this uh capability-bounded versus industry-bounded. Because then I mean people don't understand it. Now, if you're Buffett and you sold that long, then people okay, but but he wasn't trying to
[00:48:08] integrate them the way we do. No one would believe it. And and so what the what and and and that's because uh you've got to you've got to have a story that people the analysts can understand. Otherwise, we would like Georgia-Pacific, we would have a low price earnings ratio. And so being private, being in Wichita, competitive advantages, what about being owner-operated or founder-operated? There's this argument that the the the best Silicon
[00:48:39] Valley companies are those who are founder-led for as long as possible because the founders are willing to destroy the business creatively. They're willing to think about what's over the hill, make the tough decisions, reinvent the company, hire and fire as needed, be willing to take the short-term financial loss for the long term. Have you been able to get that to distill down into the organization because that's the
[00:48:59] thing that most public companies that are not owner-operated deal with and struggle with is managers that are short-term incentivized and and aren't and can't take the big risks and the the risk of failure that that you're able to embrace. No, but I I think it depends on the values of the owners. If like one of our principles is that any good partnership of any kind, whether it's marriage, friend, employee, partner requires three things. It
[00:49:31] requires shared vision, shared values, and having complementary capabilities that you use to to make each other better. And if you would miss any one of those, you're not going to have a lasting good partnership. And so I I remember I was I was to the YPO group in Wichita, I was presenting this is like 20 years ago presenting what we were doing and why, and one of them said "Well, how do you get that to work in a
[00:50:01] private company?" And and I answered, "Well, no, it's easier than in a public company, just like I did." And then I I thought who it was and he was talking about his father. His father was a total dictator. And there no way he could apply any of these principles in that. So, it all demand matters who the owners are and what their values are. Can a public CEO that doesn't have a big ownership stake in the company
[00:50:34] adopt these principles and transform the culture of that company? >> if you can get a if you can sell it like Buffett has but I mean he wasn't doing these principles, but he had a different principle and that is I'm going to buy companies I'm not going to take top price but what meaning what's meaningful to them is they run it, so I'm going to buy it and let them run it. And so that was his his value that he sold that made him
[00:51:02] tremendous. Well, that was the other one was buying insurance company, so you'd have a lot of liquidity to go do all these things and those two things are what made him successful. Right. Chase, I want to just go back to you getting involved in the business. We didn't get into that, but how did you get started at Coke? How did and were you always a believer in the principles from a young age? Were you around the
[00:51:24] organization around your dad? >> [laughter] >> I'm a chip off the old block, so it took me a while to come around. >> No, this is the most remarkable transformation. I've been talking about him all evening. This is the primo. >> Here we go. Unbelievable. >> Do I get to tell my story? The absolute bottom to the absolute top. He'll correct me. >> No, he's blown me. He's doing things I wouldn't even dream of or have the
[00:51:52] capability to do. So he'll correct he'll correct he'll correct me 10 times as I tell the story, but [laughter] Well, cuz you're too damn humble. Um so I didn't start when I was six. I started when I was 15. So you cut me some slack, but it's because I was a pretty competitive tennis player and >> He was nationally ranked. See the humility. He was nationally ranked. First first time. So um but at 15 I got burned out, you
[00:52:19] know, tennis like typical story where I wanted to hang out with my friends. I wanted to have a good time. I was tired of playing 6 hours a day. So I I started throwing tennis matches intentionally to get out of it out of these tournaments. So I go home and party with my friends and and he he said, "Look, your attitude is terrible. You can either give 100% on the tennis court and apply yourself or I'm going to get you a job."
[00:52:43] I said, "I'm sick of tennis. I'm done with it." And so I had his my the job was figured out the next morning for me. Yeah, but let me interrupt again cuz this is important. He thought he would get a nice cushy job in Wichita so he go out and party with his friends at night. Yeah. Well, you know, I'm I may be old and slow, but I'm not that slow. Yeah, he was kicked out of a number of schools which >> at night, but not last night.
[00:53:12] But yeah, so >> a parallel story movie that could be made. >> Yeah, no, seriously. There there really is. But basically all my was packed for me. Yeah. And it was thrown in the back of a truck and 6 hours later I showed up at a at a feed yard and I lived in a single wide trailer the whole summer with with my boss. I slept on the floor, worked 7 days a week and just shoveled cow and dug post holes. No, and the boils. Forgot about