[00:17:34] know a Berkshire Hathaway where you have all these different businesses a conglomerate and I say no, I mean obviously Warren Buffett and his team have done an unbelievable job operating the business the way they have but we think about our business very differently instead of operating them all as independent businesses and almost like in silos think about it as a republic of science. We're not a conglomerate. We're an integrated set of
[00:18:01] capabilities. Would it fair to say that you wouldn't consider an acquisition or a new business line if there wasn't some relatedness to an existing competency at the company? It depends. I mean as you see when you read the book we went through uh one chapter on creative destruction. And and what Schumpeter called all the different ways to do that and one is to create a new management approach. Okay, that's our biggest one. So, the question is when we
[00:18:36] bought Molex makes electrical connectors which has done fantastic and at first it wasn't doing great. So, we said we think if we can get them to apply these principles it will turn them around and and we didn't we the problem when we do that they they they the tendency is to learn the lingo and so you can call everything by these by these names and you still do what you always did and that's what was going on there.
[00:19:09] And so finally we got in no we we had changed the management. And and once we did that and and and and and they started applying these principles, they took off and now they're knocking it out of the park. But let let me go back to failures. I cuz I'm I mean we're understating our our our great strength in failures. And that is I'll I'll give you our worst failures and what caused it. And it caused us by by violating
[00:19:45] the principle of of of hiring people first on values and second on talent. And and what I've for years I told our people, "Look, if you want to hire somebody with bad values cuz you like them or some, hire them slow and stupid and so we can catch them real quick and get them the hell out. Maybe get them to go to work for our competitors or something. >> [laughter] >> Maybe help them get a job. But anyway, that was huge and then
[00:20:22] we made that even worse by uh by taking people who were terrible values and made them leaders. And and so I what we call that is is rather than we want everybody in the company to be contribution motivated. That I want to succeed by by contributing. I want to be rewarded for my contributions, not for anything else. And the value I create for our customers or for the future. And and so they would some of these people were destructively motivated.
[00:21:04] What they wanted was power or control and and they would hide their failures and and make up their successes. And so I'll give you two examples. One goes back to 1973. You remember the war in the Middle East and everything. And they had gotten us into all kinds of wild reckless trade. So that could have bankrupted the the company. And then later cuz I mean much later shows you that that repetition penetrates even the
[00:21:44] dullest of minds. So I needed this to happen a bunch of times so it finally >> [laughter] >> Okay, I got it. I got it, God. Don't punish me anymore, please. For my stupid mistakes. So So this was we we did it about the same time our ag group. We heard we put leaders in who were destructively motivated. And in refining we we we got a leader and they were destroying those businesses. And uh and and so it it didn't almost bankrupt
[00:22:21] it but it almost wiped out all of Koch's earnings in the in the the late 1990s. You you'll appreciate >> that give you a flavor? >> Yeah. So you'll appreciate this being an ag guy to go a little deeper on what happened in the late 90s in our ag business. We we called it a strategy the gas to bread spread. So we wanted to basically be in every element of the value chain all the way from pulling the natural gas out of the
[00:22:48] ground, converting it into fertilizer, making the nitrogen products to grow the crops that would ultimately then end up on the grocery store shelves and being bread we got in pizza crust all this crazy stuff. When you look back on it you're what the hell were you doing, right? But Um it was it was what he was saying is like um like leadership thinking about we can do we can do anything. And if we get like basically
[00:23:13] kind of control the the entire value chain, like we can be make that successful. Completely violates probably all 41 principles in in the book, right? Experimental discovery, knowing where your capabilities are, right people, um right roles. And so the We Yeah, we called it the gas to Brad's bread. Some people called it the ass to bread spread, too. Um so >> And there's another one in here, integrity. >> [clears throat]
[00:23:39] >> Because when they knew there were losses in some of these, and then they wouldn't tell us. They wanted to go ahead anyway. We had a we had a deal within that. You know, like Purina dog food. So one of the thing one of the things that was acquired was the large animal um uh food uh feed business feed. >> Mainly hog. Yeah, so hog hog feed. And um did no diligence, and this is one of our principles to apply the scientific
[00:24:04] method. So disprove your hypothesis as much as you you try to prove it. And um And so we we closed that acquisition, and within days we found out that we had hundreds of millions of out of the money um hog contracts. Cuz we didn't didn't even look at the contracts. So I mean, that's when I think this is a really important for founders that want to grow, right? You have this growth at all cost mindset, and you start not like asking why not.
[00:24:31] And this is the kind of trouble that you get get yourself in. So let's go back to the management piece. How do you take these principles which you've applied successfully to I would use the term iterate cuz for me like failure is all about iteration to success and finding paths that work, finding businesses that work, and ultimately finding people that work. But how do you drive that culture that represents the principles? Because you
[00:24:55] could create a book and give it to all your employees and say guys here's 41 principles. We've sat down, we've thought about it, we've written them, they're going to work. Yeah. But to actually live them, to realize them, to hold people not just responsible but accountable to them, how do you how did you do that as you develop these over the decades? Because at first we tried to get them to do it through sheep dipping.
[00:25:18] That is you take everybody in, you give them a big seminar, and now go do this. And from Polanyi we if you want to read a book that's hard to read, I mean if you want really hard one you can read human action. This is even harder, it's called personal knowledge by Michael Polanyi, who was a a chemist and and then became a philosopher. And uh and and he goes through what it takes to to to develop personal knowledge.
[00:25:52] It's it's you have to rewire your brain to have it work differently. Right? You have a habit, so you don't need to think about it, and then if you want to change like do I brush my teeth first or I comb my hair first? No, I want to start combing my hair first, and all of a sudden you're back brushing your teeth first, and you cuz you're not thinking about it. And so cuz your brain gets I mean you know your body, let's say you're
[00:26:20] you're a weightlifter and you want to be a marathoner. Okay, it's going to take work with intensity over time to change your body. Well, your brain's part of your body, so you've got to do the same thing. So, we said okay, we've got to start with okay, let's find a group that's really interested in this. They're struggling, they're having problems, and here are the principles, and we'll coach them, we'll help them
[00:26:47] start doing it, and if they work with intensity on it, and then they succeed, then we don't need ship to be because then the other uh businesses and capabilities says, "Gosh, I'd like to do that." So, you don't need to call them in. Then then we have more demand for people who can help them in the hardest thing is have our people in strategy or our our principle-based management group who are really good at helping them. And boy, they're in
[00:27:19] they're in more demand than anybody. So, the best thing is success will drive social mimicry. You'll see others >> That's it. Here's another um like take on what he's saying um that I think like really connects about culture to your question. And that is like the essence of like principle-based management and all the principles in this book as well is like what if you could um have a business and a culture, small,
[00:27:43] medium, or large, where everyone knew what to do without being told? And so, that's like hard to get your head around, right? Because I think most businesses come at it from top-down. There's the iconic leader that's the smartest guy in the room building the strategy and then telling everyone what to do. And so, I think one of the most important principles in this that we tell a lot of stories around is to flip
[00:28:07] that on its head and it's about bottom-up empowerment with principles and empowering your your talent, your team, your leaders with these principles so so that then you use the collective knowledge of everyone, not a couple smart guys at the top of the company. Most people in most enterprises that aren't owner-operators don't want to fail. They want to keep their job. They want to move up the ladder by being
[00:28:30] repeatedly successful. And if you want to create a culture of creative destruction, if you want to create a culture of failing and learning from failure, it's very hard to get individuals who live on an income, on a salary, to do that because if they make a mistake if they fail and then they fail again and they fail again, I'm worried about losing my job. So what you typically see in most scaled organizations is middle management and
[00:28:52] even senior management when founders or owners don't operate it anymore saying, I'm going to take the less risky path. I'm going to do the less creatively destructive thing. I'm going to do the thing that's least likely to fail because I don't want to lose my job. I want to keep my job, get my bonus, move on to year two and go home to my kids at and my wife and take care of the family or whatever the the family
[00:29:12] situation is and that's my that's my objective. >> that's and that's that that that approach creates perverse incentives. And so we we try to align our incentives that we want to reward people according to their overall contribution to Coke's future. So for example, if they have an experiment and that doesn't mean doing this thing in ag where you buy all these hogs and you lose hundreds of millions of dollars over what that's not an
[00:29:47] experiment. It's an experiment a good experiment is where the value you you what you learn from this is higher value from this failure than the cost of the experiment. And and so when we do that and we're we're evaluating what the person you are building capability for the future. That's why we're so we we put so much emphasis on are you building capability and capability part of it is the culture and what Chase did
[00:30:23] with with Coke Labs when he started Coke Disruptive, he said Coke Labs, I want every business to be a laboratory for what we find both to help us source these these opportunities, these tech opportunities and and then we'll let we'll we'll if they're just trying something, we'll try it out in that business. And being in all these different businesses that that touch almost every part of the economy, it gives us a big advantage in that. So,
[00:30:55] but that affected the whole culture. I mean, in your business, don't you want to be part of Coke Labs? We're we're an experimental discovery group. We're just not a bunch of grunts here grinding stuff out. Yeah, I think um the KDT examples are really good one cuz you asked about motivating and like what if you fail and then what if you get fired and and all that. Um we we tried to basically take a little bit of
[00:31:20] the Silicon Valley approach and bring the you know, of experimental discovery. You learn more and you can pivot and learn have a failure, but then now I know what I don't want to do. I'm going to pivot my strategy to what maybe we're going to keep trying. As long as you don't go sink the company with some massive bet, right? And I think um KDT was a a great experience. Like I call um you know, when when we did that um when when
[00:31:46] we made the those first investments, you know this adventure, um you're the the losers fall out first and the winners take a hell of a lot longer to to uh materialize. So, if we would have just judged it based on okay guys, you got three or four years to figure this out, we would have shut down KDT because we you had the but but it was that experimental discovery principle and mindset that we applied to it. And oh,
[00:32:09] by the way, we were learn we were learning so much as Coke from seeing the technologies that were coming around the corner that might disrupt our core business. And so, we value that learning and we rewarded the people that were bringing that knowledge in. If you just look at it on the bottom line basis in the first couple years, you'd say just shut this down, right? But then over time, like all these different things in
[00:32:33] that and then the returns are starting to come because we thought long-term about it. But it all came from that experimental discovery one principle and then creative destruction. It's like if we're not in the game on technology and we don't see what's coming, something's going to happen, especially with how fast technology's moving today. Some of our businesses are going to become dinosaurs. How much of that risk
[00:32:55] were you willing to take and did you take on acquisitions? So, doing homegrown experiments on new business ideas and strategies and products can be lower cost. But, if you're going to do an acquisition, do you have less room for failure? >> this? We were a much smaller company and we bought Georgia-Pacific for 20 billion. Well, can you just tell us what Georgia-Pacific is for those who don't know? It's a wood products company and
[00:33:17] it's got two big pieces to it, building products and consumer products. Well, it's got it's got a third one, but yeah. Okay, I'm I'm generalizing. >> [laughter] >> But, go ahead. >> Sorry, no, no, no, no. I'll shut up. I'll shut up. Shut up, you old guy. No, no, no. Um but but anyway, but on on that one >> when did you buy it and how big of a betting the company move was it? Uh 2005. Well, that was we were much smaller in
[00:33:47] 2005. I can't remember how much smaller, but it was a lot smaller. >> a massive bet. >> it come up? Okay, we were like applying this virtual cycles of mutual benefit. We were saying, "Okay, what's one of these uh these cycles are chemical process industries. And and wood creating the pulp and stuff was Matter of fact, we found in my my my father's thesis, he he he did a a study in Maine on this very thing, on pulping.
[00:34:28] >> [laughter] >> I mean, I found it later, but that that didn't Hit that MIT thesis? Yeah, yeah. >> Wow. So, we said, "Okay, let's look at the Oh, and they were they were saying they need to spin off some of those parts of the pulping part. And we said, "Okay, let's buy that." And we bought that as an experiment. And we did real well with it. And so, we said, "Wow, they they have other because that was a commodity business
[00:34:59] and they were trying to get their price earnings ratio it was like six and if they became more of a consumer products, they could get it up to nine. So, we proposed we met with them and and proposed that uh we uh uh we buy the the uh the commodity part and we'll pay them a a high enough price that then they can be all uh consumer products and get their price and we showed them all the economics and they said, "That's fine, but we'll be
[00:35:34] cons- sued for constructive fraud because we we all have this all these lawsuits against us and and uh and so, we can't do it, but we like the value." And so, we went home and says, "Well, okay, what if we just offered the whole thing?" And the couple of them were getting ready to retire and and the senior officers, so they were really liking it. >> Uh And they were kicked out of all the board meetings from then
[00:36:03] >> [laughter] >> on, but anyway, so we we sold them and that was the time when money was tight and stuff, so nobody came in and and topped us. I'll give you just one funny story. We sent one of our people in to to be the CEO, Joe Moller, who had been president of the company. And uh and and and he They had it was totally top-down bureaucratic. They were in Atlanta, they had this 51-story building. Was it 51? You can correct me.
[00:36:42] That's right. Yeah, you got it. And and you they had a private elevator to get up there. And you didn't have to wear coat and tie, but if if you came up to visit all the management was on this 51st floor. And you had to put on a coat and tie and get permission to come up there. And so Joe immediately kicked them all out. Well, we fired a bunch of them. And then sent the remaining ones down to work with their groups.
[00:37:11] And >> floor. >> And and regular floor and then turned it all into offices. I mean, into meeting rooms open to anybody. And so that I mean, you ask about how you get culture change. A lot of it is a signals like that. Particularly when a bunch of them get fired for being so bureaucratic and hierarchical. >> say that that business unit operates like the rest of Koch Industries today? Oh, absolutely. >> But how long did it take