[01:06:55] and the professor had a lot of red ink all over it and said, "F. You did not write this." And I was and so I'm like, "Oh god, you know, this is so embarrassing." And so I took it back to him and I told him I said, "Pop, um we got an F on our paper." >> [laughter] >> I know you said you got an F. And um so and then I didn't think he was going to pick up the phone and call the the teacher. So he said, um you know, "Dr. Cohen,
[01:07:25] I'll never forget this." I was hiding under the table during this phone call. He said, "Dr. Cohen, um you know, I helped my son write this paper and he learned a lot from it. And yeah, you know, do you not want me to help my son? Do you not want any parents to help their kids like learn?" And and um he said, "You know, I think you have a point, uh Mr. Cohen." And so the next day the the next day I come back and it had
[01:07:51] 99 written on the top. >> [laughter] >> See? I I made a contribution. >> Yeah. Let me Let Let me Let me go back. It's a great story, I know. But um let me go back to something I think you were getting at um around how do you remove more barriers for more people? Um and this is really kind of the Stand Together story. He mentioned education. I just want to use one example of how important we feel like transforming
[01:08:18] education is. And we also feel like it's a movement with tremendous opportunity right now. And so um our vision for education is to go from a teach-to-test model, teacher at the front of the classroom, teach you know, talking at kids to one that's individualized education. Because we all as we we talked about, we all learn differently. >> Everyone learns differently. >> And our kid all all of our kids learn learn differently as well.
[01:08:47] So um we did the research at Stand Together and prior to COVID At Stand Together just Yeah, sorry. Stan So Stand Together for those that don't know, this is really um you know, comes from my father's efforts on social change which he's been working on for for 60 years. And Stand Together in 2003 was created that really I think we had the insight of we can do a lot more together versus do it alone. If we operate in philanthropy and social
[01:09:16] change in silos, we're just not going to get the leverage to drive the change that we want to. Um and so Stand Together is made up of, you know, close to a thousand business leaders. It's It's just like the name describes. It's a community of business leaders that align on vision and values on where you want to see the country. It's really around this this this pretty simple idea that every human has a gift,
[01:09:42] but there's so many barriers across all of our institutions, education, uh you know, broken education system, a broken criminal justice system, um bad policy holding people back so you can't chase the American dream and build a business. All of these things, right? So we're very broad in terms of the issues that we focus on, but education is the one of the biggest ones. And so I describe the vision of where where we're
[01:10:08] trying to help take it and be a catalyst for change. And one of the things that, you know, we do a lot of research on where public opinion is. And prior to COVID, roughly 20% of families were open to a new model of education. Very low, right? And then everyone saw during COVID how screwed up the system was. And they saw their kids come home and they learned a hell of a lot more on YouTube learning than they actually did in the
[01:10:32] classroom. So, after after COVID, three or four years later, you look at that same data and it's 70 to 80% families are open to a completely, you know, to transform the education system cuz everyone now understands that it's just broken. So, we're we're supporting, we have these amazing preferred partnerships as my father described, whether it's Joe Lee Mott with what he's doing at the Alpha School, like closing the motivation gap
[01:11:00] and meeting kids where they are and bringing like gamification and like the principles of Fortnite into education in a way that kids are like he's taking kids that are failing students to top of the class in 3 months because he's meeting them where they're at. He's meeting them where they are they're at and solving the motivation gap and like making learning fun and cool, right? Sal Khan did the same he's a huge partner
[01:11:23] with Khan Academy. And a really interesting one uh that we we partnered with the Walton family on is the Vela Fund. Basically applying venture capital to education entrepreneurs. So coming out of COVID, there were thousands of pissed off parents and teachers that were just fed up with the system. Like, I'm just going to create my own school. You know, these small micro schools. And so with a relatively modest amount of money
[01:11:50] over the last 5-6 years, we've helped create and seed over 5,000 schools. So what's happening is there's this huge movement where people see it as like my kids are learning the the the skills of what the the future is going to be like. Not this teach-the-test model where you don't know how to interact with people. The reality is it's project-based learning. They need to have exposure to these AI models. You don't ban them. You
[01:12:18] empower them with these models, right? And so so we're it's one of the most exciting movements that I think Stand Together is really leading on. And yeah, we we need more partners that are are willing to to get behind this. >> I want to go back though, Charles. This work at Stand Together is like taking off. I know a lot of people that are engaging with you, Chase, on this work. And everything you say is so sensible
[01:12:40] and we're all it's also it always feels so obvious. Can we go back to the work you've done historically in social change and what you got right, what you got wrong? Cuz the the narrow view of the word Coke comes from a broad public perception of political activity that I think has been amplified and the narrative has been written for you. And I don't think I've personally seen a lot of conversation publicly from you about
[01:13:03] what you did when, how you were thinking about social change. Maybe you can go back to the origins of the work you started to engage in and try to drive social change and over time what you got right, what you got wrong. Well, it started with these these principles. I mean, the to me the the principles of human progress, but rather than than as Frederick Douglas said, I'll work with anyone to do right, no one to do
[01:13:29] wrong. I I was only working with uh the people who believe in all of these. And and so we were limited. I mean, with work I work with a limit libertarian party and that got so narrow and it and then they started fighting over who has bigger greater more purity in these principles to get in exactly like and that one brilliant guy, but but totally this way. He says, I he said, my libertarian is this plumb line. Anybody disagrees I he
[01:14:06] purged. So, it's almost like the Communist Party doing the same thing that Lenin did. And they and they admired Lenin. Yeah, he had the right strategy. Well, no, you can't go murder anybody that you don't like. So, it doesn't work for liberty, it works for totalitarianism. And so and then and then I started reading uh Maslow uh uh Eusychian Management and his strategy. And then Victor Frankl is the one that really got me going. And
[01:14:37] Victor Frankl uh this tremendous insight. He says, the the problem today is ever more people have the means to live and no meaning to live for. So, if you can't find a path to a life of meaning, which comes from as I said, from uh finding your gift and using it to succeed by helping others succeed in a way that gives your life meaning, then you have two choices. You can either choose to go for power or you could go for pleasure.
[01:15:27] And and you see this today and you see this through the the history of the world. So, if you if you choose power, then you're always going to want you become addicted to power. I want more power. I need more power. And we've seen that in our as I said, in our businesses. But you damn sure see that in politicians. And you see that in all the dictators in the world. Then, if you say if you if you've given up and you say, "Well,
[01:15:58] uh I've given up. I'm going to to go for for pleasure." And you and you you you dedicate yourself to to pleasure uh without considering the long-term consequences, then you have uh you're going to experience failure. You're also have a tendency to become addicted to an addict, to become suicidal, and to even engage in crime. And we see both of these today. So, the problem today is when you have a world that is based on power
[01:16:44] and pleasure, it's a slippery slope slope to to totalitarianism, authoritarianism, and socialism. And that's that's what we're saying today. So so that's the solution is to help people find their gift and a way to apply that enables them to succeed by helping others to succeed. And so what does that mean? That means we need to all of us more fully live up to the promise in the Declaration of Independence to better apply these principles of
[01:17:26] human progress. And then the other thing that I screwed up on is is uh for the first I've been at this more than 60 years and for the first 50 I avoided politics or major party politics. I mean, being in the Libertarian Party there was no thought of winning. The The only reason I got into that is, well, this is a time people are listening. They're interested in politics so we'll engage in that cuz people are talking so
[01:18:02] we'll throw that in the hopper in hopes it takes on. Well, the way that we did it it didn't take on at all. It blew up in our face. So then but we decided we needed to get in because we desperately needed some principle-based policies. Look at all the policies that we have today. They're destructive. They're leading to more and more power and pleasure, socialism and authoritarianism. And and the mistake we made or I made
[01:18:31] is trying to do it through one party. You can't do that. So now we we follow Frederick [clears throat] Douglass' advice to work with anyone to do right and no one to do wrong. Where are we in the cycle? So, there's a rising number of political leaders around the country. Initially, it was in local elections and now it's on kind of the national stage declaring themselves socialist or some form of socialism. Are we kind of on an upswing and what
[01:19:04] are >> What upswing? What what what are we talking about? >> is there a socialist >> hell was down, not up. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> So, where are we? I think we can continue this whether we're going to hell in a basket. It's what is what Thomas Jefferson said. He had slaves, but what he said about slavery, he says, "If if if God is just, I despair for the future of our country." That's kind of where I am. If God is
[01:19:35] just, I despair for the future of the country. The people we're electing, both Republicans and Democrats, I mean, and the the mistreatment you I mean, you look at at at at what's being done. I mean, occupational licenser, the way they're the the the the way they're treating illegal immigrants, you name it, across the board. And the socialists, the way they're they're treating all the the crime, all of that is uh
[01:20:12] it's what we we've got to elect people who have some principles beyond power and pleasure. What are your principles for changing people's minds? I It's it's what Chase says. We find them where we are, just like we have in the company, and we show them this doesn't get results. Now, if you're if you're a dedicated communist, if you're like like Trotsky is if we can get rid of private property, we'll get a we'll get rid of greed, and then every
[01:20:49] man every man will be a Goethe and a Beethoven, and we will uh or we will be able to create Everready warehouses of all the goods, and everybody can go in cuz out of their goodwill, they'll be making all this stuff. If people still have those fantasies, it's never worked in history. And so >> this time. Yeah. Yeah, that's well, that's right. And so that's what we're trying to do at Stand Together, and Dave, what what we've
[01:21:23] learned on this is that the you to to change minds and change paradigms, you show versus tell. And um going back to what we were talking about before, bottom-up empowerment as opposed to top-down control. I mean, I think that's like a overarching umbrella principle on all of these. So, our whole thing with Stand Together, and that's I think why it's growing exponentially is cuz we have stories of peop- we believe in people.
[01:21:48] We don't need top-down to come in and tell people how to to solve problems. >> that's the book that Brian Hook said I wrote, which we just Uh we we have a new edition based on the 250, and we got and Mar- Martin Luther King the Third wrote a forward to it, and And that's that's another book besides this one. If you're interested in the the very these ideas we're talking about on social change, there's much more in that on than than
[01:22:17] this book on that well, though we have quite a bit on this book. >> The one one of the key concepts in that is um if you believe that people aren't the problems to be solved, the people that are in the problem, they're the ones with the best ideas and they're the source of the solution. That's a totally different mindset, right? And I mean, that's what Stand Together does. We talk about venture capital a lot. We bet on people that
[01:22:40] have found something that works. I'm just give a quick example. Scott Strode from The Phoenix. We found Scott, um, his story is amazing. About 8 years ago, where he battled addiction most of his life. He had a mentor that put him in the in the gym and got him boxing gloves and like exercise was the thing that that helped him kick addiction. And what he did is like, "Well, if this helps me, I think I can help other
[01:23:05] people with this this same concept." He built a gym called The Phoenix, combined the power of community with others that are struggling with the same thing. Um, you know, multiplied by the power of um, of exercise and he was getting insane results. Like relapse rates that were below 10%. So, what we do is like, instead of like some top-down program to handle addiction, go bet on Scott. And that's what we've done the last 7 or
[01:23:33] 8 years as we've gone from he had a couple gyms in Colorado when we met him, you know, impacting a couple thousand people. He just hit a million people basically overcoming addiction in the last last year. That's a movement, right? And I mean, that's a key difference I think of Stand Together is like, how do you do it you're talking about at scale and help people change paradigms? You show them with stories like Scott that let's be
[01:23:57] let's believe in the people and let's bet on them to transform society. >> addiction and crime, that resonates wholeheartedly. Let me ask about the economic condition of America. Kids are graduating college, they got hundreds of thousands of dollars in student loan debt. No one can afford to go to the doctor. Grocery bills are too high. People are worried about paying for their next grocery bill. You look at
[01:24:18] the polling data, the survey data, the average American is really struggling. I think more than half of Americans 60 plus percent maybe 63% have negative equity. They have more debt than they have assets. And everything's getting more expensive and no one's moving up the economic ladder. There's no mobility anymore. People are really struggling and then they're looking on TV and they're seeing spaceships launching up to space holding
[01:24:39] flowers out the window smiling and laughing. And it's a really dark time and it really leads people down this path of I need the government to help me. I need support. I need help. I need to elect the people that will fix this for me. How do we address the economic crisis that's facing the average person in America, the lack of economic mobility, the principles around these distraught situations? Fantastic, but this fundamental economic
[01:25:03] crisis that we're facing. That's a damn good question. It's it's like here's the question. Okay, the eggs have have been scrambled. It's your job to unscramble them. Right. So, that's the problem. Once you create these entitlements, I mean, you almost can never get rid of them. I you you almost need Well, maybe maybe Argentina if he can pull off what he's doing cuz they were in worse shape. But, they went through it. Yeah.
[01:25:36] >> gone through it. Well, we're >> Maybe we will. >> getting there. Well, let me ask a question. Does capitalism work long term? And let me give you a an argument why it might not. The success at Koch Industries is built on an algorithm, your principles, and you've been able to adapt that algorithm and as a result scale your business, generate cash, reinvest that cash, generate more cash, reinvest that cash, and so on, and
[01:25:57] you've scaled 9,000X. You've built a compounding advantage in your business. >> Right. As is the case with all successful capitalists, you build a compounding advantage. The problem with compounding in any system is it eventually eats all of the whatever's in the system or it makes it hard for others to compete in that system or participate effectively in that system. And that's the argument that's being made today against capitalism. How do we