[00:00:00] What an honor to be here. Thank you for hosting us, Forbes, and welcome. This will be put out as the All-In interview, so I'm really excited to share this conversation with everyone on the world on the internet, and to get some time with Charles Koch, Chase Koch. Chase and I have known each other since 2013 >> Yep. when we overlapped in the agriculture industry, got to know each other, we've been business partners, and
[00:00:25] Charles and I have gotten to know each other a few times over the years, but I'm really excited for this conversation tonight. So, Charles, thank you for being here. Thanks for having us. It's an honor.
[00:00:38] Every few years, a new ad channel opens before the market catches on. That's axon.ai right now. The AI ad platform behind one of the biggest runs in tech with access to over a billion daily active users. Full-screen video ads in mobile games watched for a median of 35 seconds. Businesses are profitably spending hundreds of thousands of dollars a day on it, and most advertisers don't even know it exists yet. The window is open at
[00:01:00] axon.ai/allin. In Silicon Valley, entrepreneurs, and even mature company CEOs always like to learn about the story of other businesses and the success of those businesses, and I've always felt like Koch Industries was that untold story of probably the most profitable private family-owned business in the world. Maybe I'm off on a couple points, but certainly up there. And one of the most impressive business stories because of
[00:01:27] the evolution of the business, which I'm hopeful we can hear a little bit about how that evolution came to be tonight. And just for some statistics, if Koch were publicly traded, the revenue would put it easily in the top 25 of the Fortune 500. It's a family-owned business based out of Wichita, founded in 1940 by Fred Koch, with businesses ranging from energy, agriculture, chemicals, building products, consumer products, even cloud
[00:01:55] computing, and a very active minority investment portfolio with 120,000 plus employees. That statistic might be off across 60 countries. Very unique operating model which we'll get into today including principles around disruptive innovation of the business, reinvesting 90% of profits in new businesses and growth, meritocratic values, and I'm hopeful that tonight we can take an opportunity to hear about the evolution of the business and talk about
[00:02:22] some of those principles. And maybe we can get started, Charles, if you could give us a sense of the scale of the business, what are the business lines that you operate today and and maybe, you know, provide a little more color to those high-level statistics I shared today. I can go back through some of the history and the failures and successes, but uh I'll go through what we've grown since um the early 1960s.
[00:02:49] And then we had uh 30,000 three 300 employees. Now we have more than 130,000. And uh in in 60 countries. And uh we have uh increased in value 9,000 times over that period. When did you join the business? >> 1961 full-time. I've been working Well, my father uh we lived on a farm and and he told me at age six he didn't want me to be a country club bum. So made me work in all of my spare time, which I hated and and so I was always in
[00:03:31] trouble. And uh and so he was kind of tough on me, rightfully so. And and thank God he did. Years later I I asked him, "Pop, why were you so much tougher on me than you were on my younger brothers?" And he said, "Son, you plum wore me out." When you came into the business, what was the scope of the business? What was the business operating? We we had two main businesses. One was to design and make fractionating trays.
[00:04:07] That is that they separate liquids by differences in boiling points. And then our largest business was a crude oil gathering system in Oklahoma. And and so so my father and I I was I had finished just a few years earlier finished MIT. And I was uh I was working for Arthur D. Little, then a leading consulting firm, and and I was and and you'll think this is a joke at age 25, I was doing managing consult management consulting.
[00:04:44] >> [laughter] >> I have to laugh at the absurdity of that, but I >> [laughter] >> but they were paying me for it, believe it or not. So, my father called me and he said, "Son, uh I want you to come back and join the business." And as tough as he had been on me, and as I say, rightly so, uh I declined. So, he called me a few weeks later and he said, "Son, either you come back to run the company or I'm going to have to sell it because
[00:05:15] my health is bad and the companies aren't doing well and uh and I don't have long to live." Uh so, I agreed because uh I well, for for a number of reasons. One, the first one is uh I got three degrees at MIT in engineering and I sucked as an engineer. I mean, get that. And what So, how'd you get through MIT? Because [clears throat] I was real good at the math and the science and the theory. And I was no good at making or operating
[00:05:53] things. So, I figured out pretty quickly that I wasn't going to make it as an engineer, so I needed to be an entrepreneur. And uh and because I was good at principles, and that's why we led So, I was always looking for principles that would help me uh contribute and and succeed. And and and that's what uh that's what transformed our our company. So, you you come into the business couple hundred employees, you said, at
[00:06:28] the >> 300 employees. >> 300 employees. And how did you think was the mandate to grow the business? Was it just to keep it stable? >> it was it was Can I take a few minutes to go through those first two businesses? >> I'm listening. Okay, that sounds great. Okay, the first one was uh uh uh making uh fractionating trays. Designing those. Uh we had a president then who who was uh was one of our principles you don't want to be. The negative is
[00:06:58] top-down and obsessed with controlling everybody. So, he would send out uh memos every week demanding they on what they spent, what did you spend it on, what did you do, what how did you do this right? So, they were first matter of fact, they started uh ignoring him. And then the whole culture was protectionist. That is when you sold when they sold uh uh uh uh the internals for fractionating tower uh they wouldn't tell them the design.
[00:07:33] And well, we need to know the design so we can correct it. No, they wouldn't give it to them. And then and then what's even worse, uh to to satisfy the European market, they didn't even build a plant there. They they had a multiple sub contractors do parts of a tray and then bring them all together and assemble with another contractor. Now you can imagine how that was for speed and cost. So we were losing our ass, if you'll
[00:08:05] excuse the expression. And so I changed the the management and changed the philosophy. Okay, the first thing we're going to focus on is creating value for our customers. And then then the second thing we're going to empower our employees so they want to to to do this. And the third thing we're going to build do a plant. We're going to build a plant in Italy to satisfy the European market. We're going to do it all ourselves.
[00:08:36] And and so we got became profitable. And uh and and then we started adding uh related products. And and I'll get to that later, but uh and and and so we started growing. Can I ask a question? >> Yeah. You come in at 25, plus or minus a little bit, and you see the problems at the business. It's not profitable. It's not being well managed. And you overturn the management team. How did you have the confidence at this
[00:09:12] age, coming with the experience you had, to take that level of action that quickly? Well, I it was life or death. >> [snorts] >> And my father said, you can run this business any way you want. The only thing you need me of my approval on is to sell. That's the way he talked me into coming back after I said I didn't want to. Uh or I wasn't going to. And then and then in 1970, what really helped is my brother, younger brother
[00:09:43] David, uh joined the business and then and then he continued that growth. >> And then you're now running a profitable operation, you've got a European business, and at that point did you start to think about expanding into other products and other >> Well, that's it. And this is so I was learning all these different principles. And and what I saw we were doing, not here, not just here, but in other things, is we were
[00:10:14] uh building capabilities. That is I looked at it, we need to be capability bounded, not industry bounded. Like okay, you could say uh to a certain extent, cuz we were in crude oil gathering, we're in the oil industry. Oh, that means everybody would say you need to be an integrated oil company. You need to be in everything. And I was applying division of labor by comparative advantage. No, you need to be in the part of it
[00:10:42] of the of the industry, in the part of the value chain, where you can create more value than others. Otherwise, you're going to fail. And that's what we're seeing happen now. There's more specialization by comparative advantage. And so that's what so so I I I started this the created this principle called uh uh uh creating virtuous cycles of mutual benefit. And what that led us to do is to to to start this uh never-ending cycle
[00:11:19] of uh uh of growth, uh innovation, success, and failures. And failures that when we did it right that we learned from and made us better and taught us better how to apply principles to create value. And we're still going through that. We have a lot of failures. And that's when you when you apply creative destruction in your new things. If you're not failing in everything, you're not doing anything new. >> Where did you learn that lesson? So,
[00:11:54] what was the first major failure that you know, they always say you got to plan until you get punched in the face. What was the first punch in the face? >> had a bunch of them with with with with that company where it was called Coke Engineering then. And like like I said, okay, we're when we got into refining, we created petroleum coke. So, I said, well, let's come up with a a way to to use that as base to make
[00:12:20] activated carbon. And that was a fair we spent a fair amount of money on that. And I did we had a whole bunch of those. And we've had we've had many more. How did you make the decision to shut it down or walk away? Some point a lot of entrepreneurs have this problem. They they build something, they're too in love with it and they don't know when to say enough is enough. Yeah, well, that's when enough is enough when we lose our
[00:12:45] ass enough. No, it's it's when we decide we don't have the capability to create superior value for our customers and that we're going to be rewarded for. And sometimes it can be the structure of a of a business. Like like company that Case founded Coke Disrupted Technology Insight Tech, it's been it it does tremendous things, but it it is a structure that makes it hard to make it profitable. And so so that's the other thing is so
[00:13:21] so that's another these are principles that we've learned. Okay, we didn't apply that. What were the principles that we didn't apply that caused us to fail? That's what I mean we learn from failure. So, the businesses where you ask the businesses we're in now and Chase and there's Coke people here. You You all can catch me up if I the ones I missed, but uh we have uh uh engineered projects, engineering construction.
[00:13:49] We have uh uh we build uh solar plants. We have commodity uh trading and and distribution. Uh we have uh fertilizers. We have refined products. We have chemicals and polymers. We have glass. We have uh uh uh forest and consumer products. We have four different uh investment firms with different comparative advantages. Uh and we we have uh electrical products and we we have uh software uh systems uh uh for management.
[00:14:32] >> Dave, let me just hit one point. Something >> anything? No, you got it. You did a great job. Oh. Um I mean, basically, like um eight eight wholly owned um business unit platforms that he described and then four investment um uh different businesses. But, I just wanted to kind of really drill a point home because when I when I came out and when I started um really hanging out with you and the whole tech community and trying
[00:14:57] to like build that network, a lot of people have the same question that you did about who is Koch? What are you guys all about? You know, I know it's a large private business, but being in Wichita, you know, we don't know that much about it. I think this point that is so different about Koch um versus almost any other company out there is what my father said on um being capability bounded, not industry bounded.
[00:15:21] And, you know, how do you get from a small crude oil gathering company in southern Oklahoma to all of those businesses that he described? And there's I mean, the principles obviously throughout, which we'll be talking about um in this discussion, but one of the absolute core differences is that whole approach to capabilities. And um I would encourage anyone that's in a business and trying to scale, think about it from
[00:15:46] that lens. What capabilities have I demonstrated that I can add value to customers? And then um point it at new industries where I can experiment. This is one of our um one of our principles as well, experimental discovery. Not trying to do everything at once and trying to conquer the world, but experiment and test, does the customer value my product or not? Um and then along the way, you know, those those core capabilities
[00:16:13] for us started off as operations, logistics, trading. In the very early days of Koch, that's what we demonstrated we were we were good at. We were getting great customer feedback. But then when we had the capability approach to say, "Okay, we started in energy, we started in crude oil gathering and pipelines and refineries, can we point those same capabilities into natural gas? Can we point those into chemicals? Let's experiment there.
[00:16:41] Can we point those into fertilizers cuz then we learned about natural gas?" And then then the Georgia-Pacific opportunity comes along and it's like, "Hey, these are wood products. It doesn't seem similar to these other um businesses, but it's the same core capabilities." We buy Georgia-Pacific and along the way it was somewhat of a happy accident that we started learning learning about consumer products and branding. So,
[00:17:07] branding became a new capability for Koch through acquisition, but it started with where do we think we can add value and do a good job on that and collect new capabilities along the way. So, I think that's like a really simple way to think about Coke and it's over the course of time like how we're different. One other thing I'll mention too because I've been asked many times it's like well, so is it sort of like you
[00:17:34] know a Berkshire Hathaway where you have all these different businesses a conglomerate and I say no, I mean obviously Warren Buffett and his team have done an unbelievable job operating the business the way they have but we think about our business very differently instead of operating them all as independent businesses and almost like in silos think about it as a republic of science. We're not a conglomerate. We're an integrated set of
[00:18:01] capabilities. Would it fair to say that you wouldn't consider an acquisition or a new business line if there wasn't some relatedness to an existing competency at the company? It depends. I mean as you see when you read the book we went through uh one chapter on creative destruction. And and what Schumpeter called all the different ways to do that and one is to create a new management approach. Okay, that's our biggest one. So, the question is when we
[00:18:36] bought Molex makes electrical connectors which has done fantastic and at first it wasn't doing great. So, we said we think if we can get them to apply these principles it will turn them around and and we didn't we the problem when we do that they they they the tendency is to learn the lingo and so you can call everything by these by these names and you still do what you always did and that's what was going on there.
[00:19:09] And so finally we got in no we we had changed the management. And and once we did that and and and and and they started applying these principles, they took off and now they're knocking it out of the park. But let let me go back to failures. I cuz I'm I mean we're understating our our our great strength in failures. And that is I'll I'll give you our worst failures and what caused it. And it caused us by by violating
[00:19:45] the principle of of of hiring people first on values and second on talent. And and what I've for years I told our people, "Look, if you want to hire somebody with bad values cuz you like them or some, hire them slow and stupid and so we can catch them real quick and get them the hell out. Maybe get them to go to work for our competitors or something. >> [laughter] >> Maybe help them get a job. But anyway, that was huge and then
[00:20:22] we made that even worse by uh by taking people who were terrible values and made them leaders. And and so I what we call that is is rather than we want everybody in the company to be contribution motivated. That I want to succeed by by contributing. I want to be rewarded for my contributions, not for anything else. And the value I create for our customers or for the future. And and so they would some of these people were destructively motivated.