[00:43:12] America. It's about a3 to4 trillion a year economy. That is separated into three buckets. Bucket one which is the smallest is the initial licensing. That's probably 5 to 10%. Buckets two and three where all the money is made is what's called maintenance and migration which is how do I just maintain this big bulky license that I just bought for $300 million as an example >> or how do I migrate it from product A to
[00:43:44] product B. Those last two buckets represent 90% of all the dollars in revenue that's generated in software. And because of the advancement of these models and the advancement of these technological techniques that we are all uncovering, building agents, building systems, I think you're going to see that total economic opportunity shrink and contract aggressively. The companies will still be able to do their business. It'll just be at a much
[00:44:18] much lower incremental revenue. the customers will be able to do their business. They'll have a lot more flexibility and a lot of upstarts I think will have opportunity. I'm speaking my book obviously, but I'm seeing it on the ground with you have a company building software. >> Our entire business 8090s business has basically migrated to disrupting maintenance and migration patterns. I cannot describe how much opportunity
[00:44:43] there is. It's very tactical, mundane, not very sexy work, but it's incredibly lucrative. And so I expect that that thing is going to shrink. It's going to impact SAS companies, public SAS companies particularly quite severely in 20. >> What do you got facts for your biggest business loser of 2026 prediction? >> For me, we already talked about this, but it was California because of the wealth tax and also the ownorous
[00:45:03] regulations driving business and capital out of the state. I hope you guys are right that it does not make the ballot. If it does, I think there will be a panic and rush for the exits. Regardless, there's two major refineries closing by the spring. Higher gas prices will be the result. I just think that the politicians are not doing a good enough job in California dispelling the fears and the [clears throat] actual
[00:45:25] hostility of the business environment. >> That's a great one. And I went with young white collar workers in America. I think they're going to be the biggest business loser. I think it's getting really hard for them to get entry level uh jobs. I'm seeing that all over the place because companies are having an easier job uh just automating with AI than training up Gen Z graduates. That's my belief. That's why I'm launched
[00:45:50] founder university on three continents. If you are a young person, you got to be resilient. You're going to have to be self-reliant independent of what Mandami Mandami says about collectivism. It's easier to use AI than it is to train up and we don't have professional development. That needs to come back. I just did an interview with the CEO of McKenzie, which you may have seen on the feed. And this is the big challenge in
[00:46:13] corporate America is they're taking out the bottom two or three rungs and automating stuff. And we really need to develop young people so that they have a path to take the CEO jobs eventually. And I don't think they're going to have an easy time doing that. That's why I think all young people should start companies. I am talking my own book. I am talking about founder.university. Please apply Japan, Saudi, and in
[00:46:35] America. We're going to help you build companies. Thank you for my promo, >> Jason. I got a text last night from a friend and it's in response to your comment about young people not being able to find jobs because of AI, which is the statement you've made a couple times. He said went to a roundabout of 50 CEOs of public and private companies and asked everyone if they're hiring junior engineers. Everyone said they are
[00:46:56] still, but not as much as before because during co every college lowered the bar on admissions and the talent just isn't as good anymore. My friend went on and he said, 'You should talk about this to counter Jal's point about AI taking young people's jobs. We see this with financial analysts and we see this with sales people we hire. The Gen Z kids are all really challenging to hire because of cultural issues, not because we're
[00:47:21] not hiring them due to AI. So, we try and hire older people primarily to to fill those roles. So, there's a real interesting point that he was making. I texted a couple of their friends to ask them their opinion and I've heard this concurrence shout out which is like a lot of people think that recent grads out of college and this may be a co era phenomenon they just don't seem to have the temperament the motivation the
[00:47:44] organizational skills >> executive function yeah >> executive function and by the way some of our friends who I've talked to who have kids graduating college there's even a conversation about none of these kids are motivated to get jobs or to make money there's a very weird phenomenon in the youth right now and this may be a COVID phenomenon and it may be a cultural thing that's part of the long form of what's going on in our
[00:48:04] society or it may be a socialist trend or it may be a populist trend or it may just be that people have gotten too wealthy and the nation has truly split and you can't climb the ladder anymore. There's a bunch of things going on here, but I do not think, and I think a lot of people are echoing this, Jal, that challenges that young people are having finding employment is purely rooted in in an AI and automation phenomenon, but
[00:48:26] it may be a cultural phenomenon. And so, I just put that on the plate for you to consider that I don't I do think it's both. I do think it is partially what you're saying is that maybe these young folks um have, you know, they're just either entitled or their parents have enough money for them to skate and go sideways and maybe not be as career motivated. It could be a social thing, it could be a co thing, it could be all
[00:48:49] of those and certainly multiffactor. I just know what I see on the ground which is you know so many companies coming to me saying we can replace the bottom third of these tasks and that those bottom third of tasks are typically done by young people out of school. So I think both things are probably true to a certain extent and time will tell. I do think it's going to be challenging and continue to be challenging and you see
[00:49:12] that in the numbers from you know Google, Uber, Coinbase, all these companies are doing more with less and and maybe that's just the nature of AI. Maybe the first thing you do is cut costs. And maybe the second thing you do is hire people who know how to use these tools. If you are a young person who uses AI tools, you're going to find a job. If you're a young person who isn't motivated and doesn't use AI tools,
[00:49:32] you're going to have a hard time. Let's go with the biggest deal. Last year's predictions for biggest deal for 2025, traditional auto OEM consolidation. That was you, Chimoth. I think that we haven't seen exactly the consolidation, but we have seen those businesses come apart. So I think it's I give you definitely twothirds of a credit there. Uh Gavin said a title wave of M&A. I think he's not wrong there. That has
[00:49:55] started to happen certainly. Freeberg you said massive compute buildout deals. Of course you nailed that one. I said consolidation amongst the on demand economy. That hasn't happened but we do see a lot of deals occurring. And I said also Apple would buy Warner Brothers. I got that like a I guess uh that wound up going to Netflix. So I give myself a half point for that. What do you have as your biggest deal for 2026, David Saxs?
[00:50:22] >> Well, I don't want to get prediction I don't want to get too specific here in terms of names of companies and that sort of thing, >> but uh what I would say is that I think there was a breakthrough in the last couple of months in terms of these coding assistants where they've been around for a while, but there seems to have been another level of quality achieved just in the last month or so. And you're really starting to hear I
[00:50:42] mean maybe a lot of it is hype but there is I think a lot of people are getting very excited about the potential here and part of it is coding part of it is just tool use. You can download the programs and so it has access to your file drive and it can take actions on your computer. This trend feels to me like chat bots did at the end of 2022 going into 23 where it's like people were really hyped about it but then
[00:51:07] continue to play out play out in the next year and so I think these this call coding assistance/tool use I think will get bigger and bigger this year. >> Freeberg what do you got biggest deal? >> Uh Russia Ukraine I think it's going to settle out this year. I think there's a lot of motivating factors to get it settled out this year. Economic and other political factors, but I do think it's going to settle out this year and
[00:51:30] it's going to bring a bit more stability to that region. And there's a whole reset that's underway this year. I think in terms of geopolitics and where the powers all sit, >> Trump can stop that war, he would be two for two. That would be I think this one's going to settle. >> That would be that would be great. He may not have done it on day one, but if he gets it done in in, you know, year two, that's good enough for me. Chimal
[00:51:51] biggest deal 2026. What do you got? >> It's not a specific deal, but it's an approach. I think that M&A cannot happen. And so it's the IP license M&A workaround. And I think you're going to see hundreds of billions of dollars of these kinds of deals. So this is the deal that Google did with Character AI. It's the same thing that they did. >> Microsoft did it. Yeah, >> Microsoft did it. It's obviously what Nvidia did with Grock. Why are these
[00:52:16] deals happening? Well, if you just look at what Facebook tried to do, they tried to buy Manis for $2.5 billion. Manis was a Chinese company that then left China and essentially rebuilt itself as a Singaporean business. The Chinese have now said, "We're going to look at this." They are going to actively import export controls. They're going to actively look at which technologies and even which researchers are working on things that
[00:52:38] are critical enough that it just can't go abroad in this existential fight that they believe they're in with the United States. The United States is in equivalent such position. All of this leads me to believe that traditional M&A is effectively dead. I think it's going to be impossible to get a large transaction done. So how will you do it? You'll do what Sundar did. You'll do what Satya did. You'll do what Jensen
[00:53:02] did. You'll do what we did with Scale AI. These huge licensing deals that basically replace M&A. And I think that that as a deal type will get better and more refined and tighter and better executed. We were the third or fourth of these kinds of deals and even the third or fourth iteration was quite good. By the time that you're into the middle part of next year and you've done 15 or 20 of these things, I think the lawyers
[00:53:29] that work on these things and the accountants will just be bull. The tax treatment is not ideal but the speed at which you can do them is phenomenal because the next day somebody like Sundep can be working for Jensen which is what Jensen wants. They want the talent. Zuckerberg wants the talent working there the next day >> and the IP >> and the IP of course. Um you know for 2026 I think we're going to see some
[00:53:51] massive M&A. It doesn't matter to me how it occurs but I do think we're going to see a 50 billion plus deal. And I think it could be uh one of the Mag 7, an Apple, a Meta, a Microsoft or an Amazon going out and trying to buy XAI, Mistro, Perplexity, Anthropic. One of those four comes to mind. I know most of them probably want to go public and uh go it alone, but I think an offer could come in and during that race for which six or
[00:54:18] seven large language models and man it is a it is a battle where they are moving up and down the rankings and beating each other out, you know, on your question >> and I think one of them is going to I think one of them is going to go for it. I I I think it could wind up being Apple. >> I met Meta or Amazon who buys an anthropic or a perplexity. I started where you were, but this is why I went to this deal type as the biggest
[00:54:40] business winner because if any of those companies tried to buy, let's just say anthropic, I think it's three years of antitrust minimum. It's worse than when Microsoft tried to buy Activision because that was a niche product and even that took almost 2 years and like three or four months if I'm getting it right. It or about two years. It's a huge slog because it's a it's about global coordination of multiple
[00:55:07] regulators. >> Yeah. >> And get through the EU and eventually one of them takes the lead pole position. But in the Microsoft case, it wasn't just one. You had to navigate China. You had to navigate >> Europe. So I I agree with you because I think there's companies with so much cash on their balance sheets that are effectively getting debased every day. the markets will start to punish these companies. It just seems like you're
[00:55:32] right. There's going to be a hundred billion dollar transaction. I just suspect it'll end up as an IP license. >> Yeah. And I think President Trump, one of his great strengths is that he moves quickly. Man, what a first year. Whether you like the decisions or not, he he makes decisions. I think this is one of the things that Democrats are learning is that you got to actually get things done for the American people. I think he
[00:55:53] might instruct our government to let M&A be great again and that would be great for American exceptionalism. These companies do need to merge and to continue to grow and we should go try to get from a MAG 7 to a MAG 17. We need more bigger companies with bigger footprints taking on global markets. Most contrarian belief most contrarian belief. People like this one. I said openAI loses its lead in the AI race. Uh
[00:56:22] and in fact that has happened if you look at the um arenas and you look at their market share they are being challenged. Chimath you said the banking crisis in one of the major mainline banks. Gavin said one year of 5% plus GDP growth at one point over the next couple of years. Well done to Gavin Freeberg you said socialism roars back. Another amazing prediction. What's your prediction for this year since you
[00:56:47] crushed it last year? Freeberg. Go ahead. My prediction is based on the premise that I think there is going to be this revolution in Iran and the Ayatollas are going to be out. That's not the contrarian belief. I think that's the standard belief and I think that is going to happen and that's the premise. But a lot of people think that Iran is part of the destabilizing force in the Middle East. And I do think that there
[00:57:09] is already in anticipation of the turnover with the ruling parties in Iran. there is already this brewing conflict amongst the other Arab states. So I think that between UAE, Saudi, Qatar and this fraction in Yemen and then I don't know if you guys have followed but there's this kind of emerging independence movement for Somali land which is kind of north of Somalia that there may be more conflict brewing in the Middle East than anyone
[00:57:38] anticipates for this year that will not necessarily involve Israel and or Iran. it will actually be amongst the other Gulf states as they v for influence and power and that the contrarian point may in fact be that Iran has been a stabilizing force in that region and by removing Iran and by changing over Iran and they become this kind of independent democratic state and this particularly is going to be heightened as there's
[00:58:04] going to be this battle for who's going to take care of the Palestinians as the two-state solution emerges and what's the role that Jordan's going to have to play versus Egypt versus Saudi and it's going to lead to a lot of questions about resource allocation. So, I think that this year could end up being a little bit nastier than folks anticipate in the Middle East as Iran turns over. >> Sax got a contrarian belief for 2026.
[00:58:27] >> Yes, I said that AI will increase demand for knowledge workers, not decrease it. I would refer you to Erin Levy's post called Jevans paradox for knowledge workers. And the point of Jevans paradox is that as the cost of a resource goes down, the aggregate demand for it actually increases because you discover more and more use cases. So I think this will certainly happen with code. In the past has been very expensive to generate
[00:58:55] code. You have to hire engineers. There's not enough of them. It's an expensive resource. So the amount of software generated in the economy was limited by that. I think it's going to increase massively now because the cost of generating code is coming down. so much. But there's other examples too. You take a field like radiology that's frequently cited as a profession that AI is going to put out of business. That's
[00:59:16] not what the data shows. The data shows that the number of radiologists is increasing. Why? Because the number of scans that people want to make is increasing. And it's true that AI can do some of the work, but you still need a doctor to prompt the AI to interpret the AI to validate it. So you get more efficient. The cost of scans goes down. And instead of it being a super specialtity that happens very rarely