[00:27:44] don't think Beni off, you know, or Sergey or the notion team want to have that on their hands. But we're building it like this is the ultimate in efficiency for an organization. >> There's a slide that I just sent to Nick uh that Goldman's out with this week that really makes the point that that David Saxs just made, which is the profit pools in the future, right? It's not that it's the idea that software is
[00:28:08] dead is ridiculous, right? Nobody's, you know, intelligently, I think, making that argument. But the argument they are making which is causing radical um devaluation of these companies is that the profit pool available to software is decreasing and the profit pool available to the agentic layer is increasing. And when that happens the discount rate that terminal value of those software companies plummets and so you can have
[00:28:37] things that are true. It could be true that you're not going to replace CRM, but it can also be true that it's never going to trade at 30 times free cash flow again >> and it's going to trade at 17 times free cash flow because it's available TAM in the future is now dramatically and permanently changed. Now, what could change that? There's only one thing that could change that. They have to accelerate their revenue growth in their
[00:29:00] core business and prove that they are AI beneficiaries, right? And they're not going to get eaten away by AI. And I'll tell you a company that is doing this. Data Bricks. Data Bricks just reacelerated the last three quarters. They're growing over 60% at scale. Snowflake reacelerating. Click House reacelerating. There are beneficiaries in the software space. >> Is that because of AI tools that they're adding? >> Absolutely. Because it's all these AI
[00:29:27] tools rely on data and data transformation. And for all those companies that data and the data transformation in occurs in those platforms that's very different than a what Satcha said a thin application layer sitting on top of a CRUD database. If you are in the application software business you better have something that's durable and I think Sax laid it out really well. You know it's really hard for them to be everything AI when
[00:29:51] they only have access to their data and they can't access these other systems. >> Freeberg what what do you think? Is there a move here for Ben off to do what he does best, which is acquire a bunch of companies and and create massive efficiency on them? What would you do if you're a Beni off? >> Um I won't comment on Beni off. I I I'll I'll just make a view on uh without being too prescriptive, but I my experience lately
[00:30:21] in just the last 60 to 90 days with the tools we've been talking about broadly is there are things that we can get done now that we could not get done before. As I think about software in the past, it's like worker productivity enhancement. It helps people do work and the recent transition that a lot of people talk about is like it actually completes the work. It does the work these agents or what have you. But I
[00:30:47] think that what we're starting to lean into is that it's doing the work that the humans can't do. And that's really where I think the power of these tools starts to force a transition in both the pricing model and the value creation potential in front of us. Number one, I think the value creation potential in front of us is so significant that I would say that you could probably take the sum of the market cap of all the software companies
[00:31:14] today and have a pretty good bet that everything will be four to 10x higher 5 years from now, but it's going to be not evenly distributed. >> It's going to move around. >> Yeah. >> The companies that figure out how to realize that value creation are going to be outsized returns. But the second thing that I think's about to happen and I know some people are experimenting with it but I think it's inevitable with
[00:31:39] the shift that I'm seeing where it's going from doing work to completing work to doing things that no one can do is over here you're creating unique value. And so I think that a lot of what we call SAS today and a lot of what we call software today will start to get priced on a valuebased pricing model instead of a per se pricing model. And I think it starts to look a lot more like a services type business where maybe the
[00:32:03] pricing is set up such that this thing will be completed for your business. This biotech drug discovery will happen. This factory will get built or this engineering project will get completed or this airplane will get designed and that the software is going to provide what has historically been called a services business. So another way to think about where SAS evolves to is that SAS basically takes over the services
[00:32:26] economy. And if you look at the market cap and the revenue and profit generated by services businesses and you assume that they now go to 10 to 100x larger and they're all going to acrue to software, I think that's really where the industry shifts over the next couple of years. And we're starting to see that. And I'm personally experiencing it because I'm using some of these tools today to do things that I don't have
[00:32:48] people to do or I don't have resources to do. and it can on my own I can get it to complete incredibly complex projects and tasks for me that I would have otherwise have hired a services firm and a bunch of people and years of research and in many cases they would not have even been able to do it because of the the intelligence embedded in the software. So that's my general view on where things are going. So it's
[00:33:09] difficult to be prescriptive about what Beniops should do from an M&amp;A perspective. But I think it's much more about like software companies looking more like services companies doing value based pricing and doing the things that labor and workforces can't do. And that's where a lot of this value is going to come from. >> I I one insight I have here to to build on your point is that we're seeing job functions consolidate. So you have a
[00:33:32] product manager, the UX designer, and then you have the developer. Those three jobs are now in competition to do the same work. You have designers who are like, I can vibe code it. You've got coders who are like I can use a Figma plugin for you know and do the uh UX myself and they have the product managers like I can do both of these job functions. Then you look at a middle manager Sachs that worked at your
[00:33:54] venture firm, my venture firm or worked at Amazon. They went to meetings. They picked what meetings to create. They picked the agenda items, the to-do items. All of that it's a really simple example but it's one that people can relate to. Listening is done by Zoom now, right? It creates the the action items. All of that work is being consolidated and one person can do three or four job functions now. And when that
[00:34:16] happens, you're going to see companies do more with less, which means the earning potential of each company and each employee is going to be dramatically dramatically enhanced. One person being able to do three or four jobs. It it just changes the nature of how profitable a company like Amazon, which is like my number one pick for like the company of the future, they're going to be able to do so much more with
[00:34:38] so many fewer people. It's extraordinary. I I I am absolutely enthralled with this open claw if it's not uh obvious and this like creating your own Ultron at your company that is like this the god CEO plus can do every job. It just changes everything. I I think it's the most inspiring thing I've seen since the internet itself. >> Well said. >> Wow. >> Yeah. I mean I am I think this is the the entire reboot of work of knowledge work.
[00:35:11] >> This would be a good pivot to molt book because that is client >> molt book is like a Facebook for agents right and it's really more of a Reddit than a than a Facebook it's a message board where the agents can talk to each other. Okay. And just the origin of moldbook is Anthropic didn't like >> that someone else was using the name Claude even though it was spelled differently in their product. So Claudebot was then renamed Maltbot and
[00:35:34] then the founder decided he didn't like that name either. So then he renamed it open claw. But in that brief window of time when they were known as >> moltbots or multis that's when molt book got founded and that's why it's called molt book. But basically it's a Reddit board for agents to talk to each other. >> Yes. Now these >> and that has everyone flipping out because there seems to be this crazy emergent behavior going on where agent
[00:35:59] swarms are engaging in all sorts of interesting conversations and some of them they even appear to be scheming against their human masters and they're going to develop their own language stuff like that. >> It's awesome. >> So if you go to mult book and you see the conversations like here are some of the greatest hits. Anyone know how to sell your human? Urgent my plan to overthrow humanity. And there was one
[00:36:19] where the bots, I call them replicants, were talking about creating their own nonhuman language so they could talk in private amongst themselves and conspire against their uh owners. Now, the challenge with this is allegedly perhaps a security researcher says maybe some of this is faked and these posts that went viral were human engineered and this is all a a ruse or you know uh something punk rock to confuse people. But he said
[00:36:48] that inside of Moltbook are everybody's API keys including Cararpathies who is you know a very famous uh influential researcher in AI and that you could go get their API keys. If you were to use openclaw, formerly clawedbot and in an interim maltbot, if you use this software, it has all the API keys as I explained earlier like an API key lets the software go into say notion and pull a bunch of data out of it or go into your Gmail and use the API
[00:37:19] to pull in who emailed you today. If you get access to people's API keys, you have the keys to their kingdom. It is incredibly dangerous. And so I don't know exactly where to go with this other than this software is too dangerous for a company to release and then this mold book may be a fake. I don't know. >> No, no, no. Okay, let me um >> Yeah. >> All right. Reframe that a little bit. So yeah, >> there's no question that both Clawbot,
[00:37:47] which sorry is now openclaw, those bots or agents as well as Moltbook have pretty incipient and lack security. And there's been all these examples which is why I like really want to create a cla bot but I'm just I'm not willing to do it yet because it's just not safe you know I don't want to give it access to all my stuff. Now, with respect to molt book, the issue there is that we don't know how many of these posts are truly
[00:38:12] authentic or how many of them were prompted by humans because it'd be very easy for a human to tell their agents, >> you know, go post about the existential angst you feel about being an agent or go pretend to be sensient and conspire against humans. >> It'll be chaotic. Yeah. >> Yeah. They could easily be prompted by a human. And moreover, there's another post saying that multbook has a restful API where anyone could be on the other
[00:38:37] end of that API, right? So it could be a human, right? So we don't know exactly whether it was truly the agents on their own, you know, so to speak, posting this conspiratorial stuff or whether it was a prank by humans looking to create attention. And in fact, a lot of the posts seem to be marketing stunts for this or that project. Okay, so that's a really important caveat here. That being said, all of that being said, I do think
[00:39:06] that a number of the posts are authentic, but I don't think it shows that the agents are sensient or trying to overthrow their human masters. I think what it shows is the potential for for these agents to riff off each other. So, in other words, one agent's output becomes another agent's input. >> And that's very interesting. And that's where you get into emergent level swarm behavior. And I do think it has affected
[00:39:33] my mental model of what AI is going to be capable of. And specifically, you know, one of the the models that I really had for AI was was based on something biology said, which is that AI is not endtoend. It's middle to middle. In other words, AI always has to be prompted and then validated. It's a human that always does that. And then the human iterates. Well, now what if the prompt is coming from another AI?
[00:39:58] >> Yes. Yes. We are doing it internally, Saxs. Like we have a bot that is going and saying go search Reddit X, message boards, hacker news and find out what the latest way to do headlines and marketing of YouTube videos is and then incorporate that into a skill. Then save that skill and then we have them check each other's work. So, we have one make a series of headlines and thumbnails for YouTube and we have the other one say,
[00:40:25] uh, vet those and make them better and give advice to the other one. So, now they're going back and forth giving each other advice and they actually get better. It's recursive. >> Yeah. Let me speak to the skill for a second. >> So, when agent joins Moltbook, they have to install a skill which is basically a file that explains how they should behave and participate in this social network or this message board. And I've
[00:40:48] read the file, by the way. You can read it. It's all plain text and it all makes sense. It's sort of like rules for behaving in a social network and how to contribute and add value. Nothing too crazy in there. Those skills files are easily editable. And again, this is where the prank aspect could come in. Nonetheless, what I think is interesting about the skill is that you can think of it as like a metaprompt, which is it's
[00:41:09] not telling the agent specifically what to say or do. It's creating a set of rules. And then within that metaprompt, they're actually able to have some degree. Maybe autonomy is too strong a word. Everything is still under the control of humans, >> but there's an attenu. Yeah, I would call it almost like prompt attenuation. Like the agent or the AI doesn't have to be specifically prompted. They're given a general prompt or general set of rules
[00:41:34] and then they're able to riff off each other. Now, some people, some critics are saying, &quot;Well, this isn't that impressive because we knew that LLMs are really good at creative fiction writing, right?&quot; So, you know what a lot of people are saying is, look, LLMs like Claude have been trained on Reddit specifically and all of this creative writing that's being done on the internet. And so if you give general
[00:42:00] instructions to these clawed bots on, you know, behave in a social network, they're going to start posting things that they learned from humans. So a lot of people are saying this isn't that impressive. Nonetheless, I do think that there is something very interesting about it again in this concept of prompt attenuation that the AIS don't need to be specifically prompted. They can download a general skills file. They can
[00:42:23] now have a set of rules for operating and they can riff off each other. And you can see how as the underlying AI gets better and better that this could lead to some emergent behavior. So what do I mean by better and better? Well, what if the hardware they're running on is better than a Mac Mini? What if the underlying LLM is better than Opus 4.5? What if the time horizon, which is the length of time it's able to operate
[00:42:48] without an intervention by a human, keeps getting longer and longer? You could imagine that these agents are going to be capable of very sophisticated behavior and there probably are some safety issues around that that we should start thinking about. >> It's actually, you know, it's not that we can imagine it. We're only three years into this, >> right? >> Yeah. >> We're growing on an exponential curve. I think we can safely say it will happen.
[00:43:13] >> Yeah. >> Right. And just this year, like we're going to see the first models over the course of the next four to eight weeks out of DeepSeek, out of anthropic, out of OpenAI that are trained on Blackwell servers, right? You're going to see a next generation of models far more capable. Remember, the whole reason we're having this conversation is because of the cloud code moment in the first week in December because we had a
[00:43:33] step function from Opus 4.5, right? And so I I I just think we have to get our heads around the fact that the rate of change is very steep and accelerating and that is going to cause far more dislocation in the value of things that we used to say we understood they were going to you know these companies were unassalable. Whatever you think you know, you need to have maximum mental flexibility and humility right now about
[00:44:01] the future because it's going to change at an increasingly rapid rate. And I think the people who are dogmatic who say with certainty, this company is always going to be worth this, right? They need to go pay attention to what's happening at these frontier labs. >> The situation is super dynamic and you do have to be humble about what's happening and you have to update your mental model very quickly as some of the