[00:13:23] in the world? What would the world look like? And it's very kind of intimately revealing about people's quiet private conversations versus their public personas or their external conversations. Is this just like hey people feel entitled to act so maliciously and deviously in in one sense because they're wealthy because they're powerful and that's a very unique thing for wealthy and powerful people. >> I think it's too dismissive of people
[00:13:45] for their scumbag behavior. David, it the fact of the matter is people don't do this. This isn't normal. We can't normalize it. And worse yet, the level of hypocrisy that the very people that are acting the worst are out there lecturing others uh throughout this entire period of time. And I will say this, you know, to the to the ear of my sister or mother in rural Indiana. They hear the coastal elites lecturing them all the time and then
[00:14:16] they have they juxtapose it against what they read in the Epstein files. This is why we have a lack of trust. Brad, you speak about the corruption of power centers. I think a major one has to be the New York Times. The number one person in the Epstein files from Silicon Valley, which is Reed Hoffman mentioned 2,600 times, had a multi-year relationship with Epstein. They call each other very good friends. They did
[00:14:37] deals together. Reed stayed at the trifecta, which is not just the island, but the townhouse and the New Mexico ranch. And if you're going to write about Silicon Valley, Reed was the one who introduced Epstein to Peter Teal and Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg organized that famous dinner. How can you not mention that as the root of Epstein's involvement in Silicon Valley and yet read this gets a mention in one sentence
[00:15:03] of that article along with several other people? It's crazy. I mean, the New York Times clearly has a list of people they consider approved targets. They're all rightcoded people like Elon or Peter Teal and even JCAL because of his association with us, I guess, and they become the targets. But the people who've donated hundreds of millions of dollars to the Democrat party and have paid for dirty tricks against Trump,
[00:15:27] they basically are spared. Honestly, this is just emblematic of the whole institutional rot and the distrust in the country, right? They're part of the cabal. It's part of the institutions that people are losing faith in. You know, Epstein was a scumbag. And the fact of the matter is we're not seeing equal play on both sides. >> All right, let's keep moving. SAS companies are crashing out. $300 billion of value was wiped from the S&amp;P
[00:15:53] Tuesday in the software and data stocks category. Uh people are calling this the Claude crash. I don't know if I buy that, but on Monday, Anthropic, which has been on a bit of a heater as we talked about, announced that they added a legal tool to Claude Co-work. If you don't know what Claude co-work is called, this is different than the Claudebot that we talked about last week. This is a essentially what uh Claude code or a coding agent is. This
[00:16:18] is for knowledge workers to automate work and do multi-step instead of just asking you a query to a large language model, it would do a number of actual actions on your behalf that you can automate and run as cron jobs, as regular jobs every day, every hour, every week, whatever it happens to be. This one specifically is kind of like a plugin that allows you to do tasks uh related to legal drafts and research.
[00:16:40] What that meant to I guess retail investors and we'll get into this Brad since this is your specialtity is that a lot of legal tech startups and uh public companies were hit hard. Thompson Reuters down 20%. Lexus Nexus which is a database of case law uh was down 15%. Legal Zoom which gives legal advice um and documents down 15%. At the same time, SAS uh has continued to be negatively impacted by this concept that
[00:17:10] uh software will be made bespoke in uh tools and be wiped out. Figma down 13%, Salesforce 11, Service Now 11, Adobe 8%. And even before Tuesday's drop, and you can get into this, Brad, software was already the worst performing S&amp;P sub section for the year. >> By the way, the numbers you report are dramatic understatement. We we've wiped out trillions of dollars in market cap. Figma's down 80% from the high. Uh you
[00:17:37] know, all the big names. >> Let me be clear. Those were two-day numbers. That was this week since these are two-day numbers. And that's Yeah, you can give us the bigger picture. >> This is this is a real train wreck. And I was on CNBC at the start of the year, I think on January 6. Nick can can kind of pull that up. And I was asked the question, you know, what do you think about all these stocks being down? And I
[00:17:55] said, listen, they're all down and 90% of them deserve to be down. So, let's look at these charts. Uh, David, I know this is Sachs, this is your favorite chart. You and I were looking back in 22, but now we're at an all-time low. We're we're trading at 3.9 times forward revenue. If you go to the next chart, Nick, you know, on a free cash flow multiple, also at an all-time low. So, now software is trading not just at a
[00:18:18] low on revenue, but it's trading at a low on free cash. Very profitable businesses. We've got a another slide here that I think is important which is you know when when you look at what why they're going down right they're going down and this this is for Salesforce it shows it's been cut in half in the last couple weeks but the final slide they're going down not because revenue is falling look at this revenue is actually
[00:18:42] stable to increasing for software companies revenue growth they're going down because we're discounting that future uncertainty When something as profound as AI comes along, all of a sudden it causes you to question whether or not there's as much certainty and durability in those future free cash flows. So in the case of take Salesforce, it's gone from 30 times free cash flow multiple to 15 times. That means somebody buying it today says
[00:19:12] listen, I think 15 years into the future, I can count on these free cash flows. Right? Before they were willing to pay 30 years into the future. Well, hell, with AI today, we don't know what's going to happen seven years into the future. So, for people at home to understand why are these companies hitting their numbers, but their stocks are going down, they're two totally different things, right? >> Okay. So, they're hitting their numbers,
[00:19:36] but the headwind of AI means people don't believe that they'll be strong in the future. Sax, those >> Well, okay. I mean, I think there's a little bit of a handwave going on here when people say that AI is going to wipe out SAS. I I don't think that's true. You take a SAS product like Salesforce, right? It's a very large system that deals with all of your customer contacts and your revenue. You're not going to
[00:20:01] want to replace that with code that's just been spit out of a coding assistant that hasn't been fully vetted. Think about how many bug reports have been filed on Salesforce's codebase over the last 25 years, maybe millions of them. That system has been tested across thousands of large customers and enterprises. The idea that you're just going to rip out that system and replace it with code that's been probabilistically generated by an AI
[00:20:25] engine yesterday with a small team to maintain it internally just doesn't seem realistic to me. So again, I think this like very dire prediction of all SAS is dead is overstated. However, I do think that there are some issues here. So, if you're a SAS product that charges a lot of money and people only use a handful of your features, then you are, I think, a target to be ripped out with something that's more bespoke, right? Because the
[00:20:50] ROI just isn't there. I also think that you have to be really clear about what your moes are going to be in this new world because it is a lot easier to generate code and to copy. So, if you don't have good moes, then you could be in trouble. But here's where I think the greatest threat is to the SAS companies. It's not in my view their existence. I don't think it's existential. It's where the future value capture is going to be.
[00:21:16] So let me give you an example. All these SAS products are rolling out like AI co-pilots inside their tools and some of them work pretty well, but they're limited to playing in that sandbox. Whereas you look at something like Claude Co-work right now, it has connectors to all these different SAS tools. It can pull in data across all these different tools and it works seamlessly across databases and tools and that's a pretty attractive place to
[00:21:42] be, right? Like you know which one of these products is going to be your workspace? Seems to me that you're going to want your workspace to be the one that spans across and gives you AI across the most data and context as opposed to having a bunch of separate AIs inside of your existing tools. So I think the risk for the SAS companies, it's not that they get replaced, although that'll happen to some degree, but it's that they become an old layer
[00:22:08] of the stack that now there's a new layer that gets built on top of it becomes more legacy infrastructure >> and all the action kind of moves to a new layer of the stack and that's where the value ad happens and if that happens it kind of cuts into their future opportunity, right? because a lot of these companies were banking on AI as their next you look at their product road maps right it's all AI related so
[00:22:32] that to me I think is the big risk is that the value capture >> for the next layer of the stack happens somewhere else >> yeah I'm experiencing this in startup land where people go to the action as you called it sachs the most productive thing you can do is create an open claw which used to be called clawed bot not by Anthropic. This is the open source project I talked about last week. And we've actually now created like three or
[00:22:59] four of these Asian sacks. We've bought the Mac Studios and we're now running Kimmy on some of them. And we uh had to open up SAS accounts for these four agents. So, actually our SAS spend went up in the short to midterm because we opened up four more Slack ex, you know, uh enterprise versions, four more notion, uh four more Google Docs. So, it's almost like we added four employees. However, we now have put about 20 or 30% of the work people were
[00:23:29] doing into these agents. And I think it's going to be sustainable that every month we move 10 to 20% of work being done by humans into agents. But we will never use the ones that are built into the tools. To your point, Saxs, using Notion's AI tool, it's nice. Using Slacks, it's also very nice. And Google's got Gemini everywhere in the top righthand corner. But when you make agents with OpenClaw and you have them
[00:23:57] saying, &quot;Hey, pull this data from my calendar, send an email to this person, include in that some notion documents.&quot; It's unbelievable how powerful it is. So, and that I think is going to be owned by open source. That means >> the next generation of companies, they may never open up these accounts. They may use more bespoke software and it may all technology is deflationary. We know that. >> So your SAS spend might go from 10% of
[00:24:25] an employes salary down to 5% down to 1%. That's what I think the trend will be which means these companies are going to need to really downsize their expense base in order to keep those earnings up and they're going to have to evolve their products massively. Their products are just going to have to provide more value and more hooks. Freeberg, you have any thoughts on this? >> Respond to one thing. So I think one of
[00:24:45] the real conundrums for SAS companies is whether they're going to be open data or closed data. I think Bill Gurley has sort of coined this this term. So it's not open source or closed sources anymore. It's open data or closed data. You can see why they'd want to be closed data, right? Especially if you're a large suite like Salesforce, you can lay claim to being that workspace for AI. You've got enough of the tools, you got enough of a suite,
[00:25:10] you want to provide that, you want to capture that AI value layer. Yes, >> but still if there's someone using Cloudbot or whatever the next generation of Quadbots are going to be and they're connected to everything else, then that is going to create a friction in the enterprise and it will create room for a competitor to come along and say, &quot;No, no, no. I'm open data. I'm okay not being your workspace for everything. I'm
[00:25:37] willing to just provide the CRM database.&quot; and maybe they can take business on that basis. >> Well, here here's I want to build on that Sax the I'm building a project internally called Ultron and Ultron inside of my firm launch that is going to basically with the Slack API we're pulling every single message from Slack into our OpenClaw. We're pulling every single edit to the notion into openclaw and then we're taking every skill of
[00:26:07] every employee and we're writing skills for each one. One of the skills is booking guests on this weekend startups or this weekend. One of the skills is sorting the incoming applications to found university. Ultron in our world is taking every single skill of every employee putting it in one place and then we're ripping all the data from Slack, all the data from notion and every single person's Gmail. So your
[00:26:31] every single employees Gmail is going to go into Ultron and then Ultron is going to tell us what's happening in the organization. One giant employee that has the superpowers of all 20 and all the data. Now if Slack was to say to us or Notion or Google Docs or whoever it was, you can't pull this stuff out with the API and they they shut down the API, we would leave. We'd leave immediately. Right. >> And and what this is going to do, and
[00:26:57] I'm going to show Ultron on Friday's episode of This Week in Startups, if anybody wants to see it. Ultron is going to be the one canonical employee of the organization. It's going to be basically me and all 20 of my employees. This is kind of mind-blowing when you think about it. I And we interface with it in Slack and it just talks to us and tells us what's going on in the organization. So, I was asking it, what meetings did
[00:27:20] we have with founders yesterday? and tell me the notes that all the associates took on it and it gives it to me. Tell me all the topics and the guests on the podcast and it gives it to me. It's really unbelievable what's about to happen and nobody can release the software, Brad, because if you release software that allows agents to go and do things on your behalf, the fallout if it up and if it leaks data, I
[00:27:44] don't think Beni off, you know, or Sergey or the notion team want to have that on their hands. But we're building it like this is the ultimate in efficiency for an organization. >> There's a slide that I just sent to Nick uh that Goldman's out with this week that really makes the point that that David Saxs just made, which is the profit pools in the future, right? It's not that it's the idea that software is
[00:28:08] dead is ridiculous, right? Nobody's, you know, intelligently, I think, making that argument. But the argument they are making which is causing radical um devaluation of these companies is that the profit pool available to software is decreasing and the profit pool available to the agentic layer is increasing. And when that happens the discount rate that terminal value of those software companies plummets and so you can have
[00:28:37] things that are true. It could be true that you're not going to replace CRM, but it can also be true that it's never going to trade at 30 times free cash flow again >> and it's going to trade at 17 times free cash flow because it's available TAM in the future is now dramatically and permanently changed. Now, what could change that? There's only one thing that could change that. They have to accelerate their revenue growth in their
[00:29:00] core business and prove that they are AI beneficiaries, right? And they're not going to get eaten away by AI. And I'll tell you a company that is doing this. Data Bricks. Data Bricks just reacelerated the last three quarters. They're growing over 60% at scale. Snowflake reacelerating. Click House reacelerating. There are beneficiaries in the software space. >> Is that because of AI tools that they're adding? >> Absolutely. Because it's all these AI
[00:29:27] tools rely on data and data transformation. And for all those companies that data and the data transformation in occurs in those platforms that's very different than a what Satcha said a thin application layer sitting on top of a CRUD database. If you are in the application software business you better have something that's durable and I think Sax laid it out really well. You know it's really hard for them to be everything AI when
[00:29:51] they only have access to their data and they can't access these other systems. >> Freeberg what what do you think? Is there a move here for Ben off to do what he does best, which is acquire a bunch of companies and and create massive efficiency on them? What would you do if you're a Beni off? >> Um I won't comment on Beni off. I I I'll I'll just make a view on uh without being too prescriptive, but I my experience lately