[00:56:10] Cal. >> Yeah. Disappointment. >> President Trump has talked about it. Yeah. That he wants them to do what he says. Yeah. >> Everybody thought he was going to pick assass it in part because he was the person inside the White House. This decision I think was viewed as the most independent decision. Yes. because taken a lot of positions the exact opposite of the president. And what I think you got to hold these two truths at the same
[00:56:32] time. Number one, I think if War saw the situation, he saw we saw in June of 21 when the cost of a cargo container from China went from $1,500 to $15,000 and we were screaming to raise rates and pal did nothing. I think Wars would have been raising rates like crazy in order to save off inflation. So, I think this guy's intellectually honest. It's just now we have inflation that is coming in below expectations and we know that the
[00:56:59] restrictive rate is above neutral. So it's the Fed's job to keep the economy going at maximum employment so long as inflation is anchored. And that's the situation we're in. Inflation is anchored. We need to have lower rates so people can buy homes and borrow money to uh to live their lives. >> One thing that Worsh could do that I think would be very impactful is just get better data at the Fed. >> Yes. Yes. I mean, from what I
[00:57:21] understand, their data is all legacy. We have so much real-time data now in the private sector and the Fed. So, I was talking to Barry Sternick, you know, from Starwood, big real estate guy about this, and he was telling me that the way they measure inflation for housing or for rentals, which is a major component, is they survey like 8,000 households to find out what their rent is. It's like, are you kidding? All you got to do,
[00:57:44] >> they should be going to Zillow. They should be going to >> they should be looking at millions of units that have recently rented. So look at the deltas, not like the stale data. >> It's all digital already. >> You know, it's actually a great point, Sax. You could probably make a bet or an investment on the idea that Kevin Worsh will lead the Fed to a new digital, better data system, more streamlined, more frequent, better data.
[00:58:07] And then as an investor, you could ask yourself the question, okay, what are the implications of that being the case? And you could probably start to trade on that probably. I mean, he was telling me, so Barry, you know, again, runs Starwood, so they have a lot of units. And he was telling me, look, there are landlord companies, large corporations that have literally like a million units. Whose data do you think is better
[00:58:27] on rental inflation or deflation? Obviously, theirs because they got the freshest data, but the Fed could go get all that data across all these different companies. And what he was saying is, you know, Brad, to your point about summer of 2021 when the price of a shipping container was going through the roof, so were rents. >> You know, it was way higher than what the Fed's data suggested. I mean, like Barry was saying, like in certain places
[00:58:51] it was like 40%. The Fed's data was very laggy because again, they're surveying. So it's not as precise. And then on the way down, when rent prices come down, it's also super laggy. So the point is that the Fed is slow. Maybe this is why Powell is too late is they're using stale data or laggy data. So they don't see the inflation when it's skyrocketing, but they're also not seeing when it's decreasing. If you
[00:59:16] think about the misallocation of resources that occurred as a result of the Fed not acting in June of 21, it cost our country trillions of dollars. 22 wouldn't have had to happen the way it happened where everything crashed out because all of a sudden we panicked at the end of 22 and had to jam interest rates which caused people to lose jobs country companies to be uh you know struggle uh >> banks to blow up >> you know and so like to me that was all
[00:59:45] avoidable have a Manhattan project data project for the Fed which I agree with you Saxs uh or David maybe maybe he'll be the one to do it bring AI into the Fed why Are we having Fed governors call up three CEOs as part of their survey to get the feel on how things are going as opposed to having AI collect those trillions of data points that the Fed can act on? >> Yeah, I'll just close with I I like the pick because he is very cleareyed about
[01:00:13] what causes inflation which is government spending. Like that is printing money. Government spending is the root of all this inflation stuff. So he just can control that and he is a backs stop or a voice on that issue. I think it's great and I think he should drop all this pal lawfare nonsense. Okay. >> And he understands technology better than anyone. I think that's so key. >> Well, I mean having somebody who's 55
[01:00:38] and not 65 or 75, I think that makes a lot of sense. >> But also he spends a lot of time in Silicon Valley. He's been working out of the Hoover Institute at um Stanford and he's very well connected and I think he's had great insight and perspective. I don't want to end the show without talking about the SpaceX XAI merger. On Monday, Elon Musk announced SpaceX is acquiring XAI, largest MA transaction in history, $1.25 trillion combined
[01:01:02] valuation. If you didn't know, X, formerly Twitter, got acquired by XAI, which was Elon's LLM AI startup. Those two were together. Now those two become part of SpaceX and they're going to IPO this year potentially be biggest IPO in history in terms of money raised and market cap. Brad, your thoughts on this transaction and the eventual perhaps creation of dollar sign musk put Tesla SpaceX together which includes X and
[01:01:39] then you've got Optimus robots on the moon base building data centers in space that are powered by solar. Your thoughts? >> Well, let's just stick with what we know. SpaceX is merging with X.AI. You're merging the two biggest TAMs in the world, right? all of artificial intelligence and all of space together with the world's greatest entrepreneur. Um, and he said, you know, there was a podcast he did this morning with Cheeky
[01:02:05] Pine, our friend John Collison, where he said, &quot;I'm going to have data centers in space in 30 months.&quot; Right? And if you're going to have a massive cost advantage with data centers in space, and remember power is the proxy, power is the primitive to AI, if you can deliver that, right? And there are tons of retail investors and institutional investors like us who want to bet against that future, right? Then Elon's
[01:02:28] your guy and the combination of those make perfect sense. But Elon is like kind of an N of one is ability to dream this. >> And just to clean that up, you said bet against you mean bet with him. Not not against that vision, but bet with that vision. Just >> like I I I think that there will be dramatic retail demand and institutional demand who want to bet on that future. these two giant TAMs of artificial intelligence in space. Got it. And so,
[01:02:54] you know, and then if you just look at you you click down a layer, you know, Starlink's going from, I think, 10 million people to 20 million people. They're going to launch this uh, you know, retail uh mobile service so that we can have Starlinks to our phones to replace these crappy mobile networks that still 20 years later can't keep us connected to a phone call. And, you know, and now we're going to get, you
[01:03:15] know, data centers in space. So, um, you know, I'm glad he's on America. data centers in space. Freedberg, uh, brilliant idea, science fiction. Can he get it done in 30 months? Impact if he does. >> Well, I think there's one key point that I would make about the macro landscape at the moment. We are limited by power and as Brad pointed out, power is the requisite for scaling compute, for scaling ultimately the
[01:03:44] applications of AI. And in that constraint, in that constrained world, much like any other constrained world, scarcity breeds innovation. And so I think that there are two paths that we're going to observe happening in parallel here. One is the Elon path, which is to escape the the constraints of these social systems that say, &quot;I don't want a data center. I don't want nuclear. I don't want this. I don't want that.&quot;
[01:04:12] regulators, people that are trying to tax you, people that are limiting our ability to scale electricity production on Earth and there's a lot of reasons for that and we can go through them. So that's one aspect of how do you escape that constraint. I think that there's a separate aspect which is totally unrelated to the topic you're talking about which is that I do think that we will see compute efficiency scale by
[01:04:34] probably on the order of 70 to 100x over the next few years. meaning electricity efficiency per token of output. And I think that there's a number of reasons to believe that it's in the chip stack. I mean, Grock, our friend Sunny and his exit to Jensen is a good indication of that. But that was call it Brad, I think you know the number. It's probably around 2 to 3x 3x improvement in energy efficiency. But there's model
[01:05:01] architecture being redone. There's ways of breaking LLNs into small models, running them locally. There's a way of having networks of models work where you don't have to call the whole model and run it through the entire matrix, but you can run through smaller matrices and then you can have those smaller matrices call other matrices as needed. So the total compute need goes down, which means total electricity goes down. So
[01:05:22] chip architecture is changing, model architecture is changing. So I think this is a good reflection of what's going on right now in the world, which is there is this increased demand for AI for for effectively productivity improvements in the world to unleash human potential. But we are constrained by energy and we are constrained by resources that we have here on earth today. So one branch is let's escape earth, go get energy in space, make data
[01:05:46] centers in space. Only one person can execute on that. It's Elon. I think that to Brad's point is an end of one. I don't think we're going to see a lot of that. So how is everyone else going to respond? Because everyone else can't launch data centers in space. I think everyone else is going to respond by creating entirely new model architectures, new chip stacks. And that's I think the other side of this innovation coin
[01:06:06] >> efficiency. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's this new way of getting lower energy costs per token of output. >> And if you put those both together, you could get both. So whatever token efficiency and energy efficiency happens here on Earth, Elon can put into space. Right. So >> that's right. >> Yeah. So he could >> and I think we got to ask ourselves the question if this is successful and if Elon's math is right, the engineering is
[01:06:30] right and the execution is right, what is the response going to be? Because the whole planet isn't going to let Elon have a monopoly on the future. So we've got to ask ourselves from a social perspective, a political perspective, an economic and a business perspective, all four of those vectors, what are others going to do? We can all be excited about retail buying into this. Great. But how is the business community that's building data centers
[01:06:56] and is investing Google's investing 185 billion this year in data centers? How is China going to respond? How are people going to respond when one man controls the world's compute? And we could probably do a 2 or threeh hour conversation on that. But I think that's where I would spend a lot of time doing deeper analysis from both an investment perspective and thinking about what's around the corner. I think it's Elon's
[01:07:17] laid out his path and where he's going. And I do believe he's going to do it. Now, what's the rest of the world going to do? That's where I think things get a little bit more challenging and you could kind of debate things, but the rest of the world is not going to sit idly by. >> Yeah. And Brad, if this does happen, you get people with new chipsets, new architectures, better software, and better energy on planet Earth, and Elon
[01:07:38] doing this in space, and we do see tokens go down or efficiency go up, let's say 200x, 300x, there is a possibility that we're going to solve almost all the problems we need to solve and there'll be excess capacity. That is another potential outcome here is that we don't know what to do with all these tokens. social order. Social order is the one problem that you're going to create, Jason. So, just to be clear,
[01:08:02] there's a there's a concept of diffusion of innovations when you something new comes that it it it does not hit everyone at once. And so, the rate of change that's being unleashed right now is creating a very asymmetric outcome in terms of when people realize the benefits from that change. >> Absolutely. And so as what you're describing happens, which I think it will, Elon is accelerating everyone forward and he's going to force everyone
[01:08:27] else to respond in business, in government, and so on, the biggest challenge, the biggest problem that's going to emerge as we get rid of cancer, as we get rid of aging, as we get rid of food scarcity, as we get rid of resource scarcity, blah blah blah blah blah, social order, because it's going to create such a tremendous disruption. >> I love the upleveling of the point that David just made because I think it links
[01:08:47] a lot of things we talked about today together. There have been 117 billion humans who who've occupied this planet and for 99.9% of them they never saw a single innovation in their lifetime. >> Their lifespan was shorter than the invention cycle. And now you think about the rate of change that we're having to digest nation states, families, businesses, right? It's it's prepare for the unexpected and whatever you you know
[01:09:16] the things are that you believe to be true. Again, I just think it demands this intellectual humility. Now, to to Freeberg's point, I don't think any of this is changing in the next, you know, 24 months, 36 months. Data centers are going to be on planet Earth. You know, they're going to be filled with Nvidia chips and, you know, and the other chips that we've talked about. And I think that alone is going to bring us this
[01:09:36] agentic future that's already going to be shocking even before we launch these data centers in space. >> Yeah. I mean, this is an over-the-top move from Elon that I don't think anybody anticipated, and he has figured it out. I've sat with him and he's he's walked me through it, like how this works. It works. So, the question is simply execution. There is no stronger entrepreneur when it comes to execution in the history of entrepreneurs than
[01:10:00] Elon. I know he's a friend of mine and you know, I'm hyping him up, but he will execute on this and if he does or when he does, I should say, it's going to change everything. You can see this today and if you are scared about this future and you're listening to this podcast wondering for your kids etc. there's a very simple way to not be scared which is to embrace and use these tools. The top two people in my
[01:10:22] organization out of 20 people who are using openbot and building Ultron and the age of Ultron they are worth each one of them is worth 200 of the other employees and they only have 18 other ones. If you're a young person, just embrace these tools. Open open claw this weekend. Build on it and you will be infinitely employable for the rest of your life if you just embrace these tools. I wanted to give you your flowers, Brad. Couple years
[01:10:49] ago, you came on this podcast, you started talking about these America accounts. You got Michael Dell to partner with you on it and to put a little bit of money. As we know, 40% of the country do not have exposure to the equities that are going bonkers up and down, but generally up and to the right. And you have now created Trump accounts. You were at the White House. You had the big launch. Let me say, Brad, this would
[01:11:14] not be a law if Brad Gersonner did not pursue it with absolute dogged determination. Relentless. I've gotten calls and texts from Brad at 6:00 a.m. and at 2 am. You may sleep less than the president, Brad. And then that is a remarkable thing because I don't think he sleeps at all. Nicki Minaj is singing about Trump accounts apparently with Bessant. It's very strange, but it's happening. Just take us through why you
[01:11:41] did this and the impact you hope it has in the coming decades. >> Well, you know, Friedberg just alluded to it. These are very destabilizing destabilizing forces, right? You can't have a trillionaire and 70% of people feeling out that they're left out and left behind and the system's rigged against them and they're not in the game of capitalism. Less than half of the people under the age of 40 have a positive view of capitalism. So, you
[01:12:05] know, we set out on this journey. We talked about it here uh to make everybody a capitalist, give everybody an ownership stake in the upside of America. It passed the Invest America Act became the law of the land as part of the big beautiful bill. And now we're in the process of rolling it out. In fact, in the last, I think five days, 1.5 million families and kids have claimed their account. It's embedded within the tax filing system. All you