[00:42:00] instructions to these clawed bots on, you know, behave in a social network, they're going to start posting things that they learned from humans. So a lot of people are saying this isn't that impressive. Nonetheless, I do think that there is something very interesting about it again in this concept of prompt attenuation that the AIS don't need to be specifically prompted. They can download a general skills file. They can
[00:42:23] now have a set of rules for operating and they can riff off each other. And you can see how as the underlying AI gets better and better that this could lead to some emergent behavior. So what do I mean by better and better? Well, what if the hardware they're running on is better than a Mac Mini? What if the underlying LLM is better than Opus 4.5? What if the time horizon, which is the length of time it's able to operate
[00:42:48] without an intervention by a human, keeps getting longer and longer? You could imagine that these agents are going to be capable of very sophisticated behavior and there probably are some safety issues around that that we should start thinking about. >> It's actually, you know, it's not that we can imagine it. We're only three years into this, >> right? >> Yeah. >> We're growing on an exponential curve. I think we can safely say it will happen.
[00:43:13] >> Yeah. >> Right. And just this year, like we're going to see the first models over the course of the next four to eight weeks out of DeepSeek, out of anthropic, out of OpenAI that are trained on Blackwell servers, right? You're going to see a next generation of models far more capable. Remember, the whole reason we're having this conversation is because of the cloud code moment in the first week in December because we had a
[00:43:33] step function from Opus 4.5, right? And so I I I just think we have to get our heads around the fact that the rate of change is very steep and accelerating and that is going to cause far more dislocation in the value of things that we used to say we understood they were going to you know these companies were unassalable. Whatever you think you know, you need to have maximum mental flexibility and humility right now about
[00:44:01] the future because it's going to change at an increasingly rapid rate. And I think the people who are dogmatic who say with certainty, this company is always going to be worth this, right? They need to go pay attention to what's happening at these frontier labs. >> The situation is super dynamic and you do have to be humble about what's happening and you have to update your mental model very quickly as some of the
[00:44:22] assumptions change. >> Yeah. And the number one assumption for me is this concept of recursiveness where these models are going out every day on a cron job to get better at what they do. When you hear this discussion free, how does it inform you with oh and creating an agent to go look at the data and make itself better or investigate other things happening in agriculture and report it back to you? Do you have
[00:44:45] you started to rethink as a CEO how you look at organizational structure andor you know virtuous loops of innovation? My biggest takeaway from molt book is maybe what we perceive to be intelligence is itself like emergent meaning like we think that humans have this like profound ability to communicate. You guys ever watch Darren Brown the hypnotist? You ever seen his shows? >> No. Explain to the audience. Yeah.
[00:45:16] >> Well, he's pretty crazy. Like there's this one episode I think I've talked about it. It's my favorite episode that he's done where he takes these two advertising executives and they're both supposed creative geniuses. And he picks them up at their office and he brings them to his office and in his office he's got like a whiteboard covered in a blanket and he says, &quot;You guys have to come up with a name for a pet cemetery.
[00:45:35] Come up for a logo. Come up with a motto.&quot; They spend eight hours in the room ideulating, working on whiteboards, going back and forth. Did you think about this? Did you think about that? >> Blah blah blah blah blah. Like, oh my god. And at the end of it, they come up with this great idea. He walks in, they show their idea, the name, the logo, and the motto. He opens up the blanket, the whiteboard he had underneath. He had the
[00:45:55] exact same name, logo, and motto. And all along the way, when he picked them up in the morning and he drove them from their office to his office, they were in a cab. And he put these little subliminal messages in the cab. He had these kids walk across the road wearing a logo on a t-shirt. He had all of these kind of subconscious cues for these guys. He effectively programmed them. And it was kind of to me the biggest
[00:46:17] insight into maybe like human creativity, human consciousness and our kind of belief in self-will because maybe there's this underlying programming where we're all effectively programmed interacting with each other and there's computation there's social computation going on all the time but that social computation perhaps if you have the right view on it is quite predictive and maybe understandable and maybe that's what we're seeing in
[00:46:43] maltbook where we all think that there's this unique idea of intelligence, but maybe it's what we all do, which is effectively computation of information that is transitioned in different ways in the same way that maybe humans socially interact and it's simply mimicking or replicating the way that we do things. So, I think what was so striking to me is how everyone was so struck by it and you know, maybe one day
[00:47:05] we'll all kind of wake up to a little bit of this. Maybe we're all malt book. I don't know. That's my profound >> or there's a finite set of outcomes and there's some predictability to it. In the same way GTO is sorting to figure out all the threads of possibilities in poker or the heristics of you know chunks of chess and you know the best practices there like maybe it's just figuring that all out. The universe is a
[00:47:29] giant system of computation information computed by matter and maybe the information is computed by silicon versus carbon. There it is. >> Big news this week. Trump has nominated Kevin Worsh as the new Federal Reserve chair. Trump made the announcement on Friday, January 30th. Background on Worsh 55 years old, 20 years younger approximately uh to Powell, who's currently in charge. He graduated from Stanford and Harvard served as the
[00:47:57] youngest Fed governor at age 35. That's impressive. And he helped steer the Fed through the great financial crisis back in 2008. He's uh apparently an inflation hawk. He's very pro growth. He's very pro AI. And he uh Freedberg, you're going to like this. He's against excessive government spending and money printing. These are all very unique positions. Um as a Fed chair, it's uh if he's confirmed by the Senate, he takes
[00:48:23] office in May of 2026, replacing Jerome Powell. Uh, and remember Pal is under criminal investigation by the Trump administration's DOJ for testimony he gave regarding the Fed's headquarter renovation. Remember that awkward presser between him and Trump where they were going over the costs? Uh, GOP Senator Tillis, who we talked about last week, said he will block Worsh's nomination until the DOJ wraps up what a
[00:48:52] lot of people are calling lawfare against Pow Freeberg. Worsh was on one of your boards for five years. What are your thoughts on him as the Fed chair? >> As most folks know, he's worked with Stan Rocken Miller for a number of years. Stan's been very public with his comments and was very public with his comments in 2022, 2023 coming out of the pandemic on the Fed's actions and their failure to act at the right time. I
[00:49:15] think Kevin Worsh was very preient in his points of view that he has shared publicly at the same time about what the Fed's failure to take action early would mean, which would be rapid rise in inflation. They've been pretty vocal about things that I think are so critical at this stage. If we don't address both the monetary policy and the budget policy, I think we're going to be in a lot of trouble. And I think having
[00:49:38] Kevin Wars coming on board means probably generally more quantitative tightening, probably generally a bit more of a prudent approach to monetary policy. And you know, you can kind of translate that through maybe to some of the actions we're seeing in markets today. I'd love Brad's point of view. And if he concurs, but I think Kevin is a high integrity, deeply intellectual economic thinker. He's not political.
[00:50:02] He's not in these kind of dogmatic ways that I think, you know, puts things at risk. He has relationships with central bankers around the world. That makes him very much have a good global view. So anyway, I think he's an excellent choice and I I'm really happy the president picked him. >> Brad, your thoughts? >> Yeah, I mean, listen, I think Kevin's an excellent choice. Kevin Hasset and and and Rick would also have been good. I
[00:50:28] think they all would have flown a very similar trajectory. But I agree with David. The market I think is overreacting to quote unquote his hawkishness. So let me give you a few counterpoints with respect to >> By the way, before you get to your counterpoints, what is the hawkishness that the market is hawkish specifically? >> Yeah. The idea of hawkishness is that you're going to do quantitative tightening. That means you're going to
[00:50:51] pull money out of out of the system, right? by allowing debt to roll off and not repurchasing, you know, mortgages or other things. Number two, it's that you won't lower rates as much as other people might have lowered rates. So, that's what the market is kind of fearful of because he's been very critical in the past, as we were on this podcast, right, of Jerome Pal in June of 21, it was obvious to everybody in the world that inflation
[00:51:17] was skyrocketing and the Fed sat on its hands. So, but let me give you a couple thoughts. Number one, they've said very clearly and he said clearly that he really thinks that Greenspan got it right in the '9s, right? That sometimes you can have really high rates of growth without inflation. That comes from productivity. In the '9s, that was driven by the internet. Today, it's driven by AI. He thinks AI will be very
[00:51:42] deflationary. And so he's more likely to let the economy run so that we can have these four or 5%, you know, GDP prints without panicking and saying, &quot;Oh my gosh, I got to I got to raise rates.&quot; Number two, when you look at the balance sheet, the Fed's balance sheet peaked at $9 trillion in 22. It's already rolled off to 6.5 trillion. We've had quantitative tightening to the tune of 2.5 trillion. So yes, I think he'll
[00:52:09] continue to reduce the size of the Fed's balance sheet, but at a slower rate, and he's recently commented on this, I think at a slower rate than the rate we've been on. So I don't think that that is an additional headwind to the economy. And then finally, when it comes to rate cuts, I think that he's going to, you know, I don't think the president would have appointed him unless he was constructive on rate cuts. I think he
[00:52:30] believes that we're too restrictive. And the reason we're too restrictive is that inflation is well anchored. Listen, inflation has come in below all consensus estimates for two years, right? It's still coming in below consensus estimates because the GDP gains we're getting are from the fact that we're investing more in the economy from the productivity gains we're seeing from AI, etc. And so I happen to think
[00:52:54] that I I would take the over on the number of rate cuts that Worsh is going to give us this year. But I think the e the the market is clearly a little bit nervous about this and saying, you know, the reputation is more hawkishness and so maybe we ought to back off a little bit. >> Saxs, your thoughts on this selection by President Trump. Why did he pick him in your mind? >> Well, I mean, Kevin has every credential
[00:53:18] that you can possibly have. He's been on the Fed board of governors before. He worked for Bernani. He's sort of as blue chip as it gets. Like Brad said, I think Hassa would have been amazing too, but or certainly is very well credentialed. And I think this pick was quite wellreceived. You saw that in financial markets on the heels of this, the price of gold and silver came down. It was reassuring to those who are worried
[00:53:43] about currency debasement basically. Now, that being said, I do think that Worsh has been consistent for the last year, saying the Fed was taking too long to realize that inflation is falling and that they should be cutting more. So, I do think that over the next, say, 6 months to a year, he's going to want to cut rates. But I think that the markets are reassured that in the long term, he will make sure that we have the right
[00:54:09] rates. I will say that I do think the latest data from True Inflation bears this out that again that inflation is coming way down and I think that there was some softness in the Challenger Gray report this morning. I don't know if you saw that there about 100,000 layoffs in January. Now roughly half those I think were localized to UPS which was severing its deal with Amazon and then Amazon was basically making a bunch of efficiency
[00:54:36] cuts. Only 7% were related to AI. So that's not the story. It's really, I think, very localized to Amazon and its delivery partner. But nonetheless, you see pockets of weakness. And again, I think Pal's been too late to cut rates. He could have done it last week. That would have been a lot better. But now, I guess their next meeting is not till March or April. And I think you see it reported that the expectations for rate
[00:54:59] cut have gone up. >> Yeah. And the independence of the Fed, I guess, has always been the big issue here. Freedberg Chimath's not here this week, but he's been saying maybe the Fed should be disbanded. Do you have concerns, Freedberg, with the independence of the Fed and, you know, the executive branch maybe having too much influence over setting of rates and quantitative easing. >> My day as emperor would probably resolve
[00:55:27] us back to being on the gold standard, so we wouldn't be printing money. But hey, that's that's about it. That's the only opinion I have. >> The rest of >> Here's the problem. What what what if you have a Fed chair who is too late to cut rates and he's tanking the economy or hurting the economy. It's definitely not tanking it, but it's hurting it relative to what it could be and he seems to not want to adjust course
[00:55:48] because, you know, he's kind of dug in his heels and maybe he has animous towards the executive branch. >> What do you do in that situation? Well, what do you I mean then what do you do when AOC is president AOC with Vice President Mandami and they decide, hey, we want to stick it to government and you know there is no Fed or they have too much influence. Brad's trying to get rid of the independence of the Fed. J
[00:56:10] Cal. >> Yeah. Disappointment. >> President Trump has talked about it. Yeah. That he wants them to do what he says. Yeah. >> Everybody thought he was going to pick assass it in part because he was the person inside the White House. This decision I think was viewed as the most independent decision. Yes. because taken a lot of positions the exact opposite of the president. And what I think you got to hold these two truths at the same
[00:56:32] time. Number one, I think if War saw the situation, he saw we saw in June of 21 when the cost of a cargo container from China went from $1,500 to $15,000 and we were screaming to raise rates and pal did nothing. I think Wars would have been raising rates like crazy in order to save off inflation. So, I think this guy's intellectually honest. It's just now we have inflation that is coming in below expectations and we know that the
[00:56:59] restrictive rate is above neutral. So it's the Fed's job to keep the economy going at maximum employment so long as inflation is anchored. And that's the situation we're in. Inflation is anchored. We need to have lower rates so people can buy homes and borrow money to uh to live their lives. >> One thing that Worsh could do that I think would be very impactful is just get better data at the Fed. >> Yes. Yes. I mean, from what I
[00:57:21] understand, their data is all legacy. We have so much real-time data now in the private sector and the Fed. So, I was talking to Barry Sternick, you know, from Starwood, big real estate guy about this, and he was telling me that the way they measure inflation for housing or for rentals, which is a major component, is they survey like 8,000 households to find out what their rent is. It's like, are you kidding? All you got to do,
[00:57:44] >> they should be going to Zillow. They should be going to >> they should be looking at millions of units that have recently rented. So look at the deltas, not like the stale data. >> It's all digital already. >> You know, it's actually a great point, Sax. You could probably make a bet or an investment on the idea that Kevin Worsh will lead the Fed to a new digital, better data system, more streamlined, more frequent, better data.
[00:58:07] And then as an investor, you could ask yourself the question, okay, what are the implications of that being the case? And you could probably start to trade on that probably. I mean, he was telling me, so Barry, you know, again, runs Starwood, so they have a lot of units. And he was telling me, look, there are landlord companies, large corporations that have literally like a million units. Whose data do you think is better