[00:15:04] backs on nat gas historically has been if there's even 1% leakage in the supply lines. It's worse than coal or oil or some other sort of hydrocarbon based fuel source. Even though if you have no leakage it's better. It has probably what half or something of the footprint. But but importantly, what's the administration's view on putting carbon into the atmosphere as a cost to society? And I and I I don't ask that in
[00:15:29] an antagonistic way. Um just just like cuz I met with a foreign minister from a European nation the other day a couple weeks ago and the whole delegation this was a big topic like what is the difference between our point of view which they have no carbon in the atmosphere spend all the money to keep that from happening and our point of view and I just asked for like a like help level set a little bit on what's
[00:15:50] the point of view on where carbon goes in the atmosphere over time and how important it is to to mitigate that. So, like everything else, it's about looking at the facts and the numbers and the data. It's we don't want to be cute like China. We And of course, I I think you misunderstand China's plan for wind and solar, but we want to look at the facts. How big of a deal is climate change today? It is a real physical phenomenon.
[00:16:14] We've raised atmospheric CO2 concentration by 50%. Um, from it from burning hydrocarbons, from developing a modern world. It's a real thing. It absorbs infrared radiation. It's contributed to some warming. But if you look at the math and the economics of it, it's just not even close to top 10 problem in the world today. If you look at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change economics projections to the end of this century, they nobody
[00:16:41] knows what the world's going to look like in the end of the century, but think of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. These are the people that are dedicating their lives to work on climate change. Their estimates range from 0.2 2 to maybe 34% reduction in per capita income at the end of this century. So that's in 75 years we might lose a couple months, we might lose a year of economic growth in 75 years. That's a bummer. It's not
[00:17:10] nothing. But compared to 2 to 3 million people dying simply because they don't have a clean cooking stove and and of course the the the political movement that's too focused on climate change has been against lending or bringing any capital to the developing world so that they can live longer healthier lives. They can get clean cooking stoves. They can get industry. So the administration is humans first. The the previous
[00:17:37] administration climate change was first. Energy was a subset of climate change. Human lives were a subset of energy. For for this administration, it's the opposite. Humans first. Energy is the great enabler of human quality of life. And climate change should play the appropriate role. It does. >> Hold on. Let me just bring in for a second here because I I think maybe to level set this. It felt like obviously, you know, Al Gore and the
[00:18:07] climate change movement were completely wrong. We're not sitting in 3 ft of water right now. It It was overblown. But you agree that it exists. I've never heard Jake before we should be concerned about. But I just called Boston strikes. Chimath, >> you are invested heavily in solar. You were just talking this weekend about your >> batteries >> and batteries and solar. So when is what we're hearing here just politics and
[00:18:34] like one group went too far left, this group is going too far and then you actually believe >> I believe I I agree with Chris. Let me let me give you my framework. First of all, >> energy in my opinion is not a climate change issue. No, >> energy is a national security issue. So the reason why and everybody cherrypicks a chart. Let me show this little nuclear chart going up into the right for China. Wake up people. China has no access to
[00:18:59] natural resources. The reason they do everything, the real accurate chart, if you want to be on top of this issue, is what are they investing in? They're investing in every form of energy production. Why? Because if push comes to shove in the future, China cannot be reliant on anybody for energy. It is the same in the United States. Okay? So, that's number one. That's why they're investing in everything. So, it's it's
[00:19:24] inaccurate to cherrypick the thing that helps you reinforce your bias. This is why I find nuclear such a kind of a dead-end conversation boring. The real conversation is the strategic gameplay of what's happening on the field. That's number one. Number two, in the United States, my fundamental belief is that the utilities are broken because no matter how cheap you make the making of the energy, and I really don't care how
[00:19:49] you make it, you have to spend an inordinate amount of money transmitting it and distributing it. And all of that indirection is what the average consumer pays. So if you are smart eventually you will say to yourself I'll just make it myself. >> Yes. And that doesn't have to compete with Chris's vision because what Chris has to do is enable the broader framework for industry for manufacturing for transportation.
[00:20:17] We can't do that. My belief is that the largest utility in the United States will be a distributed utility of homeowners >> having solar compliment with Chris >> and that means solar and batteries at home because you're obviously not putting >> Yes. Because you're not going to put a nuclear reactor in your daughter's bed. Who's going to do that? So let's stop having this. Nobody's going to do that. >> Greenberg is an investment in a small
[00:20:39] modular nuclear gen 4 and it's going to go in my daughter's >> When you put it under your daughter's bed, call me. >> Okay. And and JK, let let me let me come back on that. I'm not anti- solar. I worked >> You sound that way constantly. >> I just talked in numbers of it. I worked in solar energy. I bought thousands of solar energy panels to power instruments remotely. I've supported money to bring them to Africa to charge cell phones and
[00:21:01] bring lights. I'm for all energy sources that better human lives, but I'm for I'm for math. I'm for looking at numbers. >> And by the way, as a person that's that's in the solar and storage business, I also like the math. The math before was perturbed. It was uneconomic. You have a lot of people, homeowners, that are going to suffer because they have all of these solar projects that they put on their homes by the shadyiest
[00:21:26] of companies that were subsidized by these things. So, as a competitor in the market, the first thing I applauded was get these stupid subsidies away. Let the best companies compete. >> Yes. >> Let us win. >> Yeah. >> Uh, Secretary, let me Exactly. >> Uh, let me just change the topic for a minute. The Department of Energy, in addition to being responsible for progressing energy production in the United States and our infrastructure, is
[00:21:48] also the facilitator, the administrator of all of our national labs. And these labs do some of the most important pure research in the world. We have the world's first cyclron up at Lawrence Berkeley Lab where I used to work for a few years. I've worked at a DOE lab. Um, we have obviously at at Al Lawrence Liverour, Los Alamos. I mean there there's there's labs all over the country that are doing pure research
[00:22:14] that create fundamental breakthroughs that ultimately lead to industrial success for America. This administration's published out of the OM massive budget cuts to some of this research. How do you address that topic as the uh secretary of energy? How do you facilitate conversation with the White House and how do you view the importance of this research in the United States? >> Yes. So the 17 national labs we have
[00:22:38] across the country, most of them created soon after World War II, their original use was the Manhattan Project. Win World War II and develop an atomic bomb before Nazi Germany. The greatest group science ever done. Simply phenomenal. I love the 17 national labs around our country. I'm passionate about their value for our country, for their value for the human spirit. what it means to try to probe to understand what's fundamental about
[00:23:06] nature. What is dark matter? How do nutrinos really behave? We don't have commercial applications for those in the next 5 or 10 years. I I take that back. We do have a nutrino application, but I don't believe you have to have immediate commercial applications for the science to be worth doing at our labs. They are gems. They are places of scientific discovery. Tons of innovations we use today, MRI machines, those came out of
[00:23:32] work done at our national labs. So yes, I came to Washington what we were collecting a dollar in taxes and spending a $1.40 for every dollar in taxes. That is a train wreck. I am passionate about shrinking government expenditures. In the in the one big beautiful bill, we cut over $500 billion of subsidies for energy technologies. I wanted to cut the full one trillion all of them. Um not successful in that but
[00:24:00] but the much smaller amount of money around $10 billion we spend every year for these 17 national labs. I've been a passionate defender to to to stop cuts to that and I think I will succeed at that. I will succeed at that. These are critically important and you have members in Congress that support you and in in that representation. >> Absolutely. And and of course across the administration, you come in, you want to
[00:24:25] cut everything. I get it. All I'm doing is in my little narrow area of science, technology, and nuclear weapons is saying, "Let's be smart and thoughtful about what we should cut and what we should grow." >> Chris, very narrow question. >> Sax, sorry. Sax, go ahead. >> So, let's talk about AI data centers for a second. So, we know that there's this huge infrastructure investment happening. I think it's been estimated
[00:24:46] that we're going to need, I don't know, at least dozens of of gigawatts of new energy to power these data centers just over the next several years. How are we going to do that? Where is that going to come from? How do you avoid the increase in residential rates because of that? >> A huge challenge. And and David, this problem is going to keep getting worse. We we saw retail electricity rises prices rose 25% during the Biden
[00:25:08] administration. Wholesale electricity prices rose far more than that, over 50%. So we we we have done great damage to our electricity grid in the dialogue we we were just having. Not that I don't like those technologies. I don't like expensive electricity. Um it's a challenge in the the fastest growing energy source in the world and the fastest solution we have to power data centers is natural gas. Just by far the
[00:25:33] cheapest uh fastest. Of course we have supply chain issues with turbines there, but people are ramping up capacity to build those. There's simpler things we can do. There's environmental regulations that peaker gas turbines. They're only allowed to run a certain number of hour I mean hours in a year. Oh, that's what they're permitted for. We can get we have a natural gas generator. We can burn more gas and generate more electricity cheaply and
[00:25:56] we're not going to do it cuz cuz we had some climate rags that limited that. We can fix problems like that. We There's also a bunch of backup generators not just at data centers but elsewhere around the world that can't sell electricity into the grid. They don't have air permits to be regular providers when we don't need more electrons. That's we need more electrons. We only need more electrons a few hours a year
[00:26:20] at peak demand. We have slack capacity 98% of the time. Huge amount in our grid. So what we need is how from existing assets can you hit that peak capacity. We're going to change some regulations. So all those backup generators when we hit those peak hours, we're going to turn on those diesel generators or those natural gas generators. No, the climate isn't going to collapse because we ran diesel generators for a few hours, but it's
[00:26:43] going to allow us to have gigawatts more of firm electric generating capacity on the grid we have today. Yeah, >> Chris, can you explain to us how much flexibility can you have on federal lands for just you and the Trump administration and maybe subsequent administrations who are in charge to control this without the involvement of state and local actors and all of these other third party organizations to slow
[00:27:09] these things down? So, if it is the case that you want to build a nuclear reactor, is it possible to just do it with federal approval? Is there any way on federal land or some other way where you can find an avenue to do this without all these other folks gumming up the system and slowing things down? >> We will have new next generation small modular reactors critical next year. Our goal is by July 4th and I think we will
[00:27:31] beat that. But >> you'll have an operational uh small modular by July next year. By July of next year, it will not be selling electricity into the grid. It will be running on federal land other at the Idaho National Laboratory. It'll be demonstrating it can sell electricity. It will be permitted by DOE, but we're working handinhand hand with NRC as well. So, we will see commercial reactors break ground uh actually many
[00:27:57] before then. But nuclear is going to move at a faster pace than it has before. But back to David's question, 17 national labs have a ton of land on them. We sent out an RFP. Who wants to build data centers on our lab on our lab land? We'll permit them quickly. We'll help you get energy. 300 responses to that. Every large data center developer, everyone will partner with us to build data centers quickly on land. We have
[00:28:24] infrastructure. We have because we must win the AI race. We have the capital. We have the people. And that means it will not impact consumers electrical costs. That's a key piece. But what an amazing transition from the Manhattan project to operating data centers on the Department of Energy Labs over. But let me let me let me ask one more question cuz this has come up. Every time we go to DC, we hear Doge is Doge dead there's a
[00:28:49] conversation that happens. Can you tell us a little bit about Doge and the Department of Energy? Is it still around? And if so, what are the team members working on and and what are the what's the impact you're seeing? >> Oh, we have a fantastic crew of teammates. Some of them came as part of the original Doge program. So, it's just been rebranded. But this idea of getting smart technical and financial patriots
[00:29:14] who are leaving their jobs and leaving their careers to come work with us, that is as strong and thriving as ever. I I and the country have benefited enormously from the you could call them Doge alum that are at the DOE today that are that are looking through our labs that are working with us in every process, everything we're doing. How can it be better? I am I am I'm touched by the patriotism of people that are
[00:29:39] walking away mid-career or taking a a a hiatus mid-career like David Sachs. But David's a perfect example of that. So many people are doing that because they believe in this country. They believe about bringing common sense back. And again, people people think I'm this crazy guy who denies climate change. Of course, nothing of the sort. I've been I've been writing and talking about climate change for 20 years. I just want
[00:30:02] it treated rationally as a trade-off. Everything in life is a trade-off. That is the attitude that pervades Doge, that pervades all these people coming to Washington who had never been in Washington before. I'm an entrepreneur my whole life. I I never politics. >> We appreciate you engaging the dialogue and uh you're a true bestie in the all-in sense of the word. Ladies and gentlemen, give it up for Chris Wright.
[00:30:26] >> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Great, great job. Great job. [Music]