[00:00:00] Frack, frack, frack, and drill, baby drill. >> He's all in on bringing common sense back to energy. More energy is better than less energy. >> The US oil industry has become more productive than ever. >> The long talked about nuclear renaissance is finally going to happen. Unleash American energy, American entrepreneurship, American innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the United States Secretary of Energy, Chris
[00:00:30] Wright.
[00:00:36] >> There he is. Good to see you. >> Round two. Let's go. >> Awesome. Good to see you. >> Well, thanks for um putting up with us again. I know that the last time was such a joy for you. >> That is a joy. >> It was a joy. Uh for those of you who missed it, uh Jal decided to turn our uh very short panel into a debate about batteries. Uh and solar solar well the solar. He's like, "Just throw some batteries on the solar and then it works
[00:01:03] great." What do you mean? >> Like okay, but thank you for being here. >> Yesterday we were talking about the panel and Chimov said, "Why are we talking about nuclear? It's not even real. We shouldn't be doing this." Which I think's a >> No, let me be clear. Nuclear is small. It's interesting, but it's the pimple on the dog's ass. >> And so I just want to give you a statistic and and get you to respond to the future state of nuclear in this
[00:01:30] country. It's I think about 4,000 bucks a kilogram for enriched uranium to go into a nuclear power plant. To have a gigawatt nuclear power plant is only burning 3 to 4 million bucks. Oh, sorry. It's only burning about four uh yeah, 3 to 4 million of electricity per day for 12,000 bucks of fuel of uranium fuel. So the the incredible production capacity of of nuclear is like unmatched with any other energy source. Why does it take so
[00:01:56] long? And why does it then cost billions of dollars? And you know when when I can turn 12,000 bucks of fuel into $4 million of electricity, what's going on in the structural challenges with scalability of nuclear, particularly in the United States? And um why is it not a real path to kind of scalable energy production in this country for us right now? I mean it would it will be in the long run for the reason you just said
[00:02:21] the greatest energy density. That's the key thing. If you can get a lot out of a little that's got that's got running room. But nuclear involves something people can't see and they can't understand and therefore it's easy to scare people about. So nuclear really has been a victim of fear in our world. It's the safest form of energy production we've ever seen for amount of energy it's produced and the amount of
[00:02:45] negative impacts. But people think it's the scariest and the most dangerous. So if you make it very long, very bureaucratic to permit things, if you make it so that uh therefore you've got to so overdesign and so overengineer everything, it's so hard to permit enrichment. So you make everything expensive and you make everything move slow and then you have other energy sources that turn on and off and you pay
[00:03:09] people a lot to build those things. That also erodess the economics of nuclear of something that's reliable. So we meaning the government has killed nuclear over the last four generations and the goal of the Trump administration is to reverse that strangulation of nuclear and let it fly again. But you're right it'll take some time but sorry before let me just make one. What is China doing differently? >> I hate to say it but just more rational.
[00:03:36] You know China is they're worried about if nuclear accident happens and it injures people makes them sick then they're gonna look bad. that's going to kill them. But their their their design criterion are just for human safety, not for getting the environmental groups off them or or doubling down cuz someone else will be mad at them. So, they're just pragmatic. They're building reactors faster and therefore cheaper.
[00:04:00] And they got 20 plus under construction right now. >> Chris, let's u let's break down the the challenge as the world needs an infinite amount of electrons and an infinite amount of heat. >> Fair. >> Yes. uh why don't you just ground people on where we get those things today and you know like what percentage comes from coal what percentage comes from that gas what percentage comes from nuclear globally just so that we can maybe
[00:04:25] figure out where we need to go and how do we get this more of this stuff now >> yeah so so in 1973 and I use that year because that's the Yam Kapoor war that's when oil prices tripled later in the decade they doubled again in the Iranian revolution so we said we got to get off oil and gas. So in 1973, oil, gas, and coal provided 85% of global energy. And last year, 2024, 85% of global energy. So they and they've continued to grow. O
[00:04:55] over that uh 50 years, natural gas has grown 3% compound annual growth rate. Coal 2%, oil 1%. Oil is the most expensive and most flexible. Coal is cheapest if you don't have infrastructure. Natural gas can be the cheapest if you have infrastructure. So it's growing the fastest. Natural gas is the fastest growing energy source. So that's 85% from hydrocarbons, 4% from nuclear. Used to be six in the year 2000 and today 3% a little less than 3% of
[00:05:27] total energy comes from uh wind, solar, and batteries. Hydro's in there, geothermal in there. The the biggest component I didn't mention is traditional biomass burning wood. That is twice the total global energy of wind, solar, and batteries combined. >> 2 billion people still cook their daily meals and heat their homes burning wood indoors. 2 to three million easily preventable deaths a year to switch out that wood burning and liberation of
[00:05:59] women with just a simple propane stove. There was a chart that um got a lot of distribution on X over the weekend which was just the rise in electricity prices in the United States and um can you sort of explain you know why that's happening and how we get around it so that it doesn't sort of trigger inflation and other kind of like pernicious things that we don't want to see. >> It is a huge challenge. It's a
[00:06:29] meaningful part of the reason why President Trump got elected. Energy is just the it's the sector of the economy that enables everything else. If you get energy wrong, everything hurts and particularly for lowincome people. So, look, the backbone of our electricity grid has been coal and hydro. Those are the two electricity sources we started with. Then oil got added. We used to get a lot of electricity from oil. Very
[00:06:55] little today except in Puerto Rico or Hawaii because oil is flexible and you can transport it more easily. Uh today, so today the back I mean the backbone of our electricity grid has been coal, hydro, natural gas, um and nuclear. Today natural gas is 43% of our electricity. Nuclear is about 20%. Coal was over 50, but now it's only about 15 or 16%. together they're 80% of US electric actually when you put in hydro they're
[00:07:25] about 83% of US electricity and for a 100red years we had a declining inflationadjusted price of electricity it's just an infrastructure for our country it boomed in this 60s and 70s as people got air conditioning for the first time drove up electricity demand a lot u and then about Obama administration really launched it but this sort of overrought and I think Iraq rational fear of climate change did. It wasn't a a rational let's look at the
[00:07:56] math and the trade-offs. It was just sort of a a reason politicians could do things. So, we started to spend a huge amount of money to subsidize the building of what are called zerocarbon. Of course, they're nothing of the sort, but they are lower carbon electricity sources, wind and solar. They're all made out of hydrocarbons, made with hydrocarbons, maintained and installed with hydrocarbons. But the I call them
[00:08:21] derivative energy production sources than than them. But think about that. If you add on to the electricity grid a bunch of sources that sometimes provide electricity and sometimes don't, what's the value of that? Like are there any customers for electricity? You turn on your light switch and it'll turn on when the wind starts blowing or the sun comes from out of the cloud and then and then in the middle of the football game, you
[00:08:47] know, the sun went behind the cloud and the football game will turn off, you know, you're in the middle of a surgery and those things go off. So, of course, there's no customers for that. But if you put them on a grid that has these sort of reliable dispatchable resources, what do they have to do now? They have to turn up and down as the wind uh blows or the sun shines. So all you you peak demand for electricity is what a grid is
[00:09:13] designed for. Right? When it's really cold in a winter evening when everyone comes home to work, if electricity goes out and stays out that night, thousands of people will die. Texas had 200 plus deaths just a few years ago with it with with an electricity outage. So you have to design the grid to heat at peak demand. So at peak demand in the wintertime is in the evening and it's cold and it's cold because a high
[00:09:39] pressure system an air mass has come down from the north and sits there. So there's no wind during a high pressure system and it's it's in the evening so there's no sun. So you're not getting any electricity for wind or solar at inauguration day back east at peak demand. We got 2 to 3% from wind solar and batteries. The traditional grid has to supply everything and that's at peak demand. So if you have traditional
[00:10:05] sources that can supply at peak demand, of course they can supply at every other time as well. >> Is that is that why the utilities keep raising the prices? It's just the complexity of servicing all of this and building all of this >> because you're adding new sources on and you have to build new transmission lines and you've got to operate the traditional sources in a more complicated fashion. And when the wind
[00:10:26] blows, what happens when the wind blows? Nuclear power plants operate relatively steady. Coal plants, you can turn up and down but slowly. So when the wind starts to blow, natural gas turns down a little bit. You generate a little less electricity to balance out the increased wind power. The government pays that wind power producer 4 cents a kilowatt hour in a subsidy to pay it. That's straight from the federal government to
[00:10:50] the provider of that wind power. the utility pays something for that wind power. The the avoided cost is when you burn a little bit less natural gas. If you're in Texas, that's two cents for 1 kilowatt hours worth of gas. If you're in New England, that could be 3 or 4 cents of avoided cost. That's less than the government subsidy to produce that, let alone the utility or in my former home state of Colorado where they they
[00:11:18] they have additional subsidies and mandates that we must get our electricity or some percent of our electricity from these other sources. But if you're not dispatchable, you're not adding to the peak capacity of a grid, you're just a parasite. Parasites are expensive. >> Let me um ask you a little bit about China. 2024 they've installed two to three times the amount of solar that America did per capita. They also have
[00:11:43] 33 nuclear power plants under construction, 200 planned. Your administration, David included, you keep talking about clean, beautiful coal. You keep dissing solar and batteries and wind and deriding it like you just did. What does ch and you keep talking about nack gas and clean beautiful coal. What does China understand that you don't? Okay, that so great. But and tell me how beautiful and clean the coal is and how terrible
[00:12:12] and ugly these windmills are. Please explain to us what we're missing. Well, of course, coal has been the biggest source of global electricity for 125 years. That's as long as we have good data. And it will be for decades more. So, I know you don't like it, but it's not going away. It's by far and away the biggest source of electricity in China. And they built a hundred coal plants last year. They built capacity more than
[00:12:34] almost every country in the world has new capacity. So they do build a lot of wind and solar. It's still a very small percent of their energy just like it is here. But they have an awesome industry of exporting those products around the world. They're over they're over 80% of the solar. No, they don't export much coal at all. Actually, they export solar. All of they're 80% of the solar supply chain. And think about this. Is
[00:12:58] that why you guys are down on it that we would have to buy the solar panels from them? Because it seems like you're looking backwards and China's looking forward. That's where the disconnect is coming for me. >> But but there's no there there. There's no there solar and batteries. So Elon Musk has it completely wrong. >> He he has a wildly exaggerated view of where solar and batteries will go. Um and I'd if we could make a bet 50 years
[00:13:22] out, I'll I'll make a bet solar never gets to 10% of global energy. Solar has a future and and so after 30 years of subsidies. Maybe it should fly on its own as a as an energy source. It has roles. There's remote power that the in in the United Arab Emirates, they're building a firmed 1 gawatt solar, 8 gawatts of panels and a ton of batteries. They've got great sun resources. They have lowcost labor. They can build things there. Solar has a
[00:13:49] role, but we've had this inflated role that somehow the world is going to run on solar panels. There's no math that shows that'll ever happen. And China doesn't believe it for a moment. But think about installing three times as many as us per capita then. And why do they are why are they so effective at installing nuclear power plants? Like this is what I I'm I don't know if you're gaslighting us, no pun intended.
[00:14:10] Like and this is just like a Trump mag thing where we have to diss natural sources, but do you really want to dig coal out and burn it and pollute the the environment that we're giving to our kids? I want energy to better human lives. Um, and the cost and reliability of electricity and energy sources. The the other thing we should say, electricity delivers 20% of global energy. Wrap the panel in a wrap the whole planet in a solar panel. You got
[00:14:37] 20% of energy delivered. Where's the other 80% going to come from? It's processed heat. It's transportation fuels to run jets to run ships. That's not going to come from solar ever. >> Let me ask like the maybe we can just get and I'll I'll follow up on Jason's question. One of the challenges with natural gas which is actually methane is that as a greenhouse gas methane is roughly call it 80 times more heat capacitive than CO2. So one of the push
[00:15:04] backs on nat gas historically has been if there's even 1% leakage in the supply lines. It's worse than coal or oil or some other sort of hydrocarbon based fuel source. Even though if you have no leakage it's better. It has probably what half or something of the footprint. But but importantly, what's the administration's view on putting carbon into the atmosphere as a cost to society? And I and I I don't ask that in
[00:15:29] an antagonistic way. Um just just like cuz I met with a foreign minister from a European nation the other day a couple weeks ago and the whole delegation this was a big topic like what is the difference between our point of view which they have no carbon in the atmosphere spend all the money to keep that from happening and our point of view and I just asked for like a like help level set a little bit on what's
[00:15:50] the point of view on where carbon goes in the atmosphere over time and how important it is to to mitigate that. So, like everything else, it's about looking at the facts and the numbers and the data. It's we don't want to be cute like China. We And of course, I I think you misunderstand China's plan for wind and solar, but we want to look at the facts. How big of a deal is climate change today? It is a real physical phenomenon.
[00:16:14] We've raised atmospheric CO2 concentration by 50%. Um, from it from burning hydrocarbons, from developing a modern world. It's a real thing. It absorbs infrared radiation. It's contributed to some warming. But if you look at the math and the economics of it, it's just not even close to top 10 problem in the world today. If you look at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change economics projections to the end of this century, they nobody
[00:16:41] knows what the world's going to look like in the end of the century, but think of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. These are the people that are dedicating their lives to work on climate change. Their estimates range from 0.2 2 to maybe 34% reduction in per capita income at the end of this century. So that's in 75 years we might lose a couple months, we might lose a year of economic growth in 75 years. That's a bummer. It's not
[00:17:10] nothing. But compared to 2 to 3 million people dying simply because they don't have a clean cooking stove and and of course the the the political movement that's too focused on climate change has been against lending or bringing any capital to the developing world so that they can live longer healthier lives. They can get clean cooking stoves. They can get industry. So the administration is humans first. The the previous