[01:32:51] but like 3D manufacturing at scale may at scale may not because of this exact issue, cuz people don't know what ROIC means. Sir, you have the final question. Favorite best year is Friedberg, and hate to end on a recession question. Christ. But never asking that question again. Jeez. Why Why do you guys Why do Let me ask, why do you guys think it upsets you so much? Like Well, because you're the biggest pain in the ass You are the most
[01:33:15] [ __ ] neurotic person. Every time we post an episode, we should cancel the episode. We [ __ ] everything up again. Why do we keep screwing up? We're going to destroy the I read the first nine comments, and the the downvote rate I was on YouTube. Somebody said the volume the volume going, but go ahead. The amount of noise we deal with from this one person, it's It's like literally He doesn't know He should not reward him.
[01:33:38] It's like his inner monologue feeding a feeding frenzy. You know, if you had a 2-year-old child who you've given too much candy to, who's kicking and screaming and screaming Yeah. Unbelievable. All right, final If one guy can shut him up, it's Phil DeFranco, everyone. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so it seems like a common theme on the stage these last couple days is you all feel like we're in a recession or heading towards a recession, but I get a
[01:34:00] feeling that you have the confidence that this is going to be a quick recession, like a year. So, my question would be why do you feel after 13 years of market manipulation by the Fed that it's going to be cured in under a year? No, I think you're right. The average recession as measured to like if you look back historically is two quarters. Um the problem is that we've never really figured out what it's going to
[01:34:23] take with the distortion of money that never should have been in the system. Because if you think of a supply demand imbalance as being a naturally self-balancing phenomenon, if you perturb one side of it by an enormous amount, exactly to your point, I think the open question that the world has right now is is that really a two-quarter problem? Well, the Fed has told you that they're going to take 3 years to get 3 trillion.
[01:34:48] You've heard from David that 10 trillion was put in. Probably another 3 or 4 trillion was productively used. But that still leaves another 3 trillion of sloshing around money that we don't know. So, I think it's an open question. I don't know what you guys think. Freeburg, how many months? Uh how many quarters? Sachs, how many quarters if you had to guess? I again, I just hate this definition of recession where it's about GDP decline
[01:35:10] when we had a lot of um the underlying in those numbers for GDP that I feel were like artificially inflated for a couple of quarters because of a bunch of the structural stuff we've talked about. So, I I don't know like if you look deeper at economic growth, companies signing up more customers, so like a lot of technology companies are about increasing productivity with their tools, with their with with what they're
[01:35:29] selling. And um those businesses are are going to continue to to to do well and to grow and to uh increase customers, increase revenue. Um and I I don't think that there's necessarily a lot of the structural stuff that we saw with the GFC. The one thing I am concerned about which I've highlighted is this consumer credit risk. And besides that, it seems like you know, things are um you know, on good footing. So, I I don't
[01:35:53] know like the the the the technical recession definition probably a couple quarters. Yeah. Um, I I you never know and I I think the best way to to look at the future is by doing scenario planning. So, we basically we could say this could be a, you know, short, medium, or long recession. Short would be 6 months, medium might be 18 months, and you know, long might be 2 years plus. And we just say, I don't know, say 1/3,
[01:36:21] 1/3, 1/3 probability and that kind of gives you What's your 13 to 14 months? Exactly. So, now what we're telling our portfolio companies is you want to have 2 and 1/2 years of runway right now because you got to go raise 6 months before you run out of cash and you really want to have 2 years of cushion because things could be choppy for 2 years. I'm not saying they're going to be, but they could be. You don't want
[01:36:45] your company to run out of money and die just because of macroeconomic conditions that are no fault of your own. So, if you can try to engineer at that amount of runway, that's better. Um, I also think that here's the thing about a quick recession is or the the prospect for one, we don't know what other shoes are going to drop. Consumer credit is still a shoe that we don't know if it's going to drop. Look, 6
[01:37:06] months ago did we think we'd be talking about Tiger Global or SoftBank for that matter potentially teetering on the verge of being Wiped out? Yeah, redempted out of business. and Peloton just So, things can change right. Things can change fast. We don't know what systemic risk is in the system that hasn't been flushed out yet. And I we won't be out of this until it feels like everything's been flushed out and then the market's back and things are
[01:37:33] sort of on an upward trajectory again. Real estate and crypto are real estate and crypto are it doesn't feel like that's washed out yet either. So. Do we have a clip to play as an outro? I don't know. Is this a Was this the clip of the the cut clip of Before before we go, can we please say thanks to the team that works here Yeah. and the team Jason your team at All In. Yeah, incredible team. Thanks everybody
[01:37:52] all of you guys that worked so hard. And they they really put a lot of effort into this. Pretty incredible. I guess this is a lost clip of us from last week. You did not have like Dungeons and Dragons sleepovers in grade seven and grade eight. I was actually programming Pascal and we made a water moisturizer and it was a binary lifter much like the ones you have at Tatooine. Tatooine. I made a complete replica of Uncle Owen's water
[01:38:19] vaporizers on Tatooine. And that that took six years, but it was great. And then I went hilariously as C-3PO. I went as C-3PO to our science fair. You should have seen the look on our teachers' faces. Okay, you guys have your cold open. Let's go. Let your winners ride. Rain man David Sax And I said we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you Wes Anderson. Queen of quinoa