[00:12:02] know if someone's already said this, but we're in a recession. We're in a recession and this will be like my, I don't know, 100th cycle or something. I'm I'm pretty old like the rest of us here. We've seen it We've seen it over and over again and you know, I see David's tweets about go raise two and a half years of money. This is correct. I mean, you're going to need you need enough capital to get through the
[00:12:15] problem. Uh but the good news about this recession and you know, there are there is some good news here, which is to me, if you look at the the macro picture here, it it looks like if you're going to look look at uh the amount of federal debt, the the state of the consumer and kind of what's happening in this transformation, it actually looks a little like post World War II to me. In that in in the World War in the World War II period, we had
[00:12:36] the last massive mobilization or demobilization of our economy occurred in World War II. Right. That happened again in COVID. When we change In in this case, it's like a mini version of remobilization that we're we're restarting the economy. We flooded the system with with money to get the to kind of buffer the problem then restart the economy and now we have inflation, but we also have lots of business formation and we have new ways of doing
[00:12:59] work, which is what happened after World War II. So, I'm I'm I'm very optimistic cuz most of these recessions, you know, to really get inflation down, we're going to have to reduce consumer demand and or change oil prices. So, for sure we should be putting oil in this country. I know it's not it's controversial, but that's important um to lower oil prices to get inflation down, but the reality is underneath the
[00:13:18] the the numbers, there's a lot of innovation happening and that's what happened kind of post World War II. So, I would say we're in a bit of a mini retooling. It's going to be a rough year or two. Uh hang on. It will be a rough year or two, but the consumers are pretty good shape. So they're not over levered. We should come out of okay and the US economy is so resilient man like, you know, we are all either one
[00:13:37] generation from being immigrants or immigrants here. I think most of us, right? It's the best place in the world to live. We're the most innovative economy in the world. We should I'm super optimistic what's happening here because there's so much innovation, so many smart people working so hard to make things better. Um, I think it's going to be great. I think we can get the next couple years it's going to be great. Talk about this
[00:13:54] um pumping more oil situation. Obviously Russia's involved in a and we talked about it earlier today had a debate about Ukraine um and then you have maybe uh some folks in the Middle East not pumping as much oil as we might like them to and then uh Europe decided, well we don't want to frack here, we want you to do that over there and and then we stopped here uh and none of us want to see um environmental damage done to the planet, but we also
[00:14:20] don't want to see dictators take over the planet or the economy come to a halt. What what's a reasonable proposal for America Yeah. and American sovereignty in terms of green and renewables and maybe pumping some oil. So look, I we were the first institutional investors in Tesla Motors. So I think I have an up on a few things to say in this. I believe in green technology, okay? Absolutely 100%. But energy and in
[00:14:47] the same fund we did Tesla, we actually had fracking assets because energy independence is a Well, that's incredible, really. In the same fund? Same fund. Because then as it is today energy independence is a national security issue. This is not a partisan issue. Extremely important to understand this. Extremely important to understand this. Yeah. It's not about Democrats and Republicans. It's about wars in the Middle East.
[00:15:14] And the reality is that the Saudis are not pumping. OPEC is not pumping. This is terrible for America and they know it. They're squeezing America in economy in the '70s, and it's absolutely being done on purpose. So, the answer to that in my mind is twofold. One, we should have an We should We need industrial policy down in this country, but the first thing we should have is a energy policy. Energy policy should look
[00:15:33] like this. We take all of the background subsidies, literally make them equal, and we give, let's say, 500 billion total, 250 billion in in low-cost loans to the energy patch for drilling in places like Texas, Louisiana, and an equal amount to green energy. And we sprint to a green future. At the same time, we ensure that this country is safe. We have energy security in this country for all the people out there
[00:15:56] being hurt by high inflation. It's a security problem. And um What do you You guys invest heavily in manufacturing. What do you see in terms of the future of manufacturing, the opportunity for onshoring manufacturing? Are there technologies that you guys are excited about that create an advantage for the United States to build manufacturing capacity um to service the industry here in Yeah, look, I think this thing about we
[00:16:19] outsourced the entire our entire manufacturing base to China cuz it was cheaper. But, the reality is that the If we have been our our the the productivity difference between the kind of US and China right now is about eight to one. So, a US worker is eight times more productive than a Chinese worker. We found in in cases like Tesla where we actually helped re- In terms of GDP per worker? Yes. Okay. And we helped to insource the
[00:16:39] supply chain of Tesla. Why is Tesla highly rated? Because I got news for you. You actually can make stuff in America, and it's made really well. Shocking. Okay. Shocking. Let me tell you. When you put what what is the Why do we have this narrative that it can't be done, and then we go to Gigafactory, and you see it having been done? Let me tell you why. And boy, I mean, here's the I'm probably going to get pilloried for saying this, but great
[00:17:04] companies are built by engineers like Elon Musk. That's the reality of it, and they know they want to control their manufacturing. We do it here so we can iterate faster and make the product better. If the product is good enough, you'll sell it for a great margin. They get optimized by my people, and destroyed by the CFO. When you put the finance guy in charge and he's like, &quot;Oh, hey, we can get a lower piece part
[00:17:22] part by sending it to China.&quot; But he's not understanding the iteration cycle of making that product, that guy destroys the company. And that's what happened in America. Bean counters. Yeah, we put the CFOs in charge. For God's sake, don't do that. [ __ ] these bean counters. I mean, can I say that? [ __ ] that. Well, no, and we need more engineers. say that. If you If you If you calculate return on invested capital and you think
[00:17:40] about this carefully, what happens is these long supply chains to Asia, they have huge capital deployed. But if capital is cheap, you do that because the piece part price is cheaper. But if you calculate What happened at Tesla in particular, when you calculate the overall cost and capital wasn't free cuz we didn't get any, it was actually much smarter to bring it back. Right, so the long-term cycle, you make more money.
[00:17:58] The short-term cycle, you make less money. The short-term cycle, you make more money. I mean, is that Is that another way to think about it? You optimize You optimize outcome. You You You improve the You You improve the income statement cuz you might improve profit in the short term, but you actually hurt the balance sheet cuz you send all this capital on the water over to China and you're never bringing it back. And your iteration
[00:18:16] cycle goes down because you You've got So, what you're saying is the product's less innovative. For sure. It is It is, but he's saying something really important, which is that it's the financialization of the P&amp;L that in some ways led to the decline of American manufacturing in part. Meaning, if you're a CEO of a business and you construct your employment agreement and it's based on a certain kind of earnings
[00:18:37] in a certain period, a certain earnings per share, the incentive to then drive financialization goes up. Now, the perfect example of this is if you compare it, for example, and you did this, the comp package that you gave Elon in 2018 versus the comp package that any other CEO in America got, it was completely black and white. It was It was It was It was opposite land. Yes. And you basically completely said, &quot;You get
[00:19:04] nothing now. Let's set these extreme goals, and then if you can hit it, you'll get compensated.&quot; So much so that, you know, when you had Glass Lewis and ISS said vote no, right? Uh the the I ISS has actually said no, but they usually say no to most things and we're being sued for it, so I got to be careful what I say about it. But um yeah, we had a a comp package fully votes on equity pre- appreciation that required creation of
[00:19:28] new products. And look, I'm going to I'll pick on Apple here. Apple's the first stock I ever bought. I was 12 years old. My mom actually went to Ojai Bank and bought me a a few shares of Apple. I still have it in my account. Remind me what it takes to build a great company. Steve Jobs dies. Terrible. And look, then you know, Tim Cook takes over. Tim Cook's a supply chain guy. I mean, they've really optimized profitability. It's unbelievable that
[00:19:49] you know, they're on a $2 trillion market cap or something now. But man, when's the last time they made a new product? AirPods. AirPods. Yeah. I mean, Pretty great. Great product. Great product. But Great product. It's not changing the world. Incredible free cash flow. And they aggressively buy back their stock. Yes, it's a great company. of that company has attracted I mean, like if you look at a company if you
[00:20:08] could look at a the largest shareholder is the most sophisticated financial asset owner in the world, Berkshire. Yes. Berkshire doesn't buy technology companies. They buy incredibly well-run financial assets. And it is. look look look look at how Zuck's getting lambasted for the VR investment. Some might say that strategically it's not a great investment, but he's saying [ __ ] it, I'm going to spend $10 billion
[00:20:27] a year. No, no, no. He he said it for a quarter and then he had to take it back and cancel it. Oh, you said that they took it back. Yeah. Yeah, but that's what he wanted to do. Um and so to your point, like it's very hard to really build things now. Yes, but it can be done and look, I think one of I am what's happening in the world today geopolitically is tragic. The war we're experiencing in Ukraine is absolutely
[00:20:50] tragic. But from all tragedies come some some good things. There's always a silver lining. And one of the silver linings here I think should be the acceleration of reshoring of all these products into America to rebuild our industrial base because we actually can do it. I can tell you I am started my my basically as a factory manager in California. It can be done. The are who want to make stuff between here, Mexico, Canada. We can
[00:21:13] make pharma, we can make high-tech products. Yes, the price might be a little higher, but I got to tell you the iteration will be better and your value will be better. If the product is better, people will pay for it. And resiliency. And resilient. Listen, for 100% 100%. All right. We are setting up a couple of microphones here. Antonio's been gracious enough to join us for some Q&amp;A. The audience is filled with
[00:21:32] entrepreneurs, capital allocators, artists, and builders. So, we're going to put a couple of microphones out there. Hopefully some lights on the microphones if I can see them. Line up and remember the rule. We don't need to know about your company, just a tight concise question. Anybody does any marketing or promotion, we're all going to groan. Let's practice a groan. 3 2 GROAN. NO GROANS. YOU CAN SAY YOU CAN SAY YOUR
[00:21:56] NAME. You can say your favorite bestie. also wait before we start. If Chris Is Chris Malloy here? Okay, everybody you guys may want to just know Chris. Whenever you're in Vegas, Chris is the guy at Carbone in Las Vegas, which is the most you know, best restaurant hardest restaurant reservation to get. But Chris bought a bottle of wine for us that we can open now and drink while we do the MA, yeah. Oh, well bring up a bottle of wine.
[00:22:20] Anyways, that's Chris Malloy. Say hi to him. Get get his number and text him if you're ever in Las Vegas and want to go to it. with that bottle. I mean, only Chamath would bring the captain of Carbone to our event. Oh, good to drink. Let's drink to wine. Yeah, let's do it. That's fantastic. Oh, nice to meet you. All right, first question. Tell us your favorite bestie and then uh Yeah, we're still doing favorite besties, right?
[00:22:40] and then a quick tight question. Go. All right, favorite bestie Jay Cal, uh point guard of the century to this team. So, hats off to you. Um my question is, first of all, we've been here all week uh in the last 3 days watching these cards fall from the sky. And we all know that you guys center around this poker table, this beautiful game. My question is, how is that game influenced both your relationships and decision-making in
[00:23:07] business and your personal lives? Great question. Chamath, start us up and you can go to the back and next person queue up. How has poker influenced? Our friendship, our lives. How has the poker game itself had an impact on our lives? Okay, I think I really do believe this, but I think it's the most incredible game and training ground for business because in any given moment you are forced to deal with the spectrum of good
[00:23:34] information to moderate information to bad information. Good outcomes, moderate outcomes, bad outcomes. You're taking risk, you're learning information, you're adjusting your style. And the most important thing is you're forced to anchor to your core values or not. How you behave at the table is how you behave in life. You know, you can take these good news for Phil Hellmuth. Yeah. Yeah. You can take these wins poorly, you can
[00:24:00] take these wins well, you can take the losses poorly, you can take the losses well. I I would encourage all of you to learn to play the game with your friends. It's It's a beautiful, beautiful And start a weekly game, Sachs. Well, the poker game at Chamath's house is how I got to be friends with Chamath, right? I mean I'm just saying this to you guys tell your wives why you stay up all night playing poker cuz I've been there with
[00:24:21] you guys. It's pretty freaking degenerate. We're all holding hands. Exactly. Baby, it's training. It's training for business. No, I just I'm kidding you guys. I've been there. I've been there. I've been there. I've seen the drinking and food, too. It is training for business. We're not degenerates, but let's ask you Well, I was just saying, Chamath, I mean, didn't you invest in the Hammer after I started playing in your weekly
[00:24:43] poker game? Yeah, and it it it was actually so degenerate. What really happened after that was I was in Las Vegas in 2011. I had just left Facebook. I moved to Vegas. And I was on the phone with Sachs in between playing tournaments and he like let me in invest in Yammer literally like and you know you did me an incredible solid because I put money in and you know what this is like 9 months later he sells to Microsoft and I
[00:25:11] returned a third of my first fund. Ooh, yum yum. And it really solidified my reputation. So I mean I owe you a big one for that. Well, anyway I got to say something about this though. So David Sacks I've known David for 25 years. He did Yammer. I wanted to put money in. He said no cuz if This is not this is a true story. This is a true story. He said no. He said He said no because if this fails you are my backup plan.
[00:25:37] Oh, for a job? Yes. Well, he didn't offer me a he didn't offer me a job. David to come join me. I've tried to get David to I was so afraid of losing everyone's money when I founded a company, you know? He literally took a little sack from me. I wanted to have like one friend who's my I didn't I didn't lose. But you know, that was the wrong way of thinking about it. We should have We should have Free birth? I
[00:25:54] mean how how how is the game? Well, I'll I'll look before Chamath, are you leaving? No, I'm getting glasses. come come come come back for a sec. Okay. He'll get glasses. Okay. He's getting one. I'll tell I'll tell you guys one thing. Chamath is one of the most generous people you will ever meet. Unbelievable. He He's unbelievable. Unbelievable. And for all of his for all of his bluster about his freaking mink coats and [ __ ]
[00:26:15] like Chinchilla. uh chinchilla uh he has brought together a group and he largely is the reason that I think the game grows and goes on and you saw some of the amazing people that we've had on stage here. Some of our friends are here that we play in our game with. That um really that that network has been built and solidified because of Chamath and his generosity and friendship. That's it's it's really um something I've I've
[00:26:38] learned to appreciate in my life and You know. Thank you. Say thanks. Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's it's a tremendous group and uh yeah. Amazing people like Amazing people and Yeah. The consistency of it has been amazing um from a generous group. Chamath had this like little tiny $2 million house with like a one and a half car garage when he was at Facebook and we we would play in the garage. That little tiny place you had,