[00:00:00] I'm going all in. Let your winners ride. Rain Man David Sacks I'm going all And then I said, we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you guys. Queen of Quinoa I'm going Antonio, uh Elon had a moment of reflection and uh he was talking about 2008. He's talking about the uh imminent um collapse as he felt it of SpaceX and Tesla at the same time in December 25th and he said uh there were just a handful
[00:00:36] of people who came out there uh and put their careers on the line for him. Uh yourself and Steve Jurvetson specifically mentioned uh and anyway and Ira and it was a particularly poignant moment for him. He was getting a little choked up about it. Tell us about that bet you made in 2008 and the potentially career-ending bet for you to bet in electric car company at that moment. Take us back to that decision. Yeah, um
[00:01:04] well, before I do that, I just want to say that I left my wallet uh it backstage because the last time I was with the four of you, I lost a lot of money. And I realized I better leave I better leave all the cash somewhere where you can't get it and then and you also made me cry. So, I don't I I think I might I think I might cry again now. Of joy? I mean, no, no, it was more like uh humiliation, but uh We're playing
[00:01:27] poker. Yeah, we're playing poker back there. Oh, you pulled a Palmer Lucky? Yeah. No, so if I if I if I cry again this time, it will be from uh from a sense of um just gratitude for those moments that we got to share. So, the for us in particular because, you know, our strategy is so operational, I was there working on supply chain in the factory and on sales in those in that period along with my partner Tim Watkins and three or four for our supply
[00:01:55] chain people. And we had a major problem in the supply chain. Um the costs were way out of control and you know, Elon was doing the engineering on the very expensive parts. We were doing the the I call it the B parts. They were the B parts. And man, it was brutal. Um but it was very clear to us that and remember it was also the middle of financial crisis, right? So, we had a treasure portfolio. We had to decide we
[00:02:16] didn't have a lot of capital time. These are tiny funds. 120 3 million dollar funds. Where our capital go? Where our people would go? More importantly, where our operating people go? And where I would go. And we decided to focus on Tesla because um first we really did believe in Elon uh when most people didn't. And we saw in him something very special which I think you probably saw here yesterday. That not only is he a
[00:02:39] brilliant brilliant engineer, you know, one in a 100 year kind of engineer. He's a man of deep conviction and deep passion and deep compassion. What he is doing is really trying to bend the arc of humanity for all of us because he really cares. And that came through to us and we wanted to be on that mission with him. And so we were privileged enough to be there in a moment of time that it mattered and it was really hard, man. I
[00:03:05] mean, we had clients I actually had a client said to me, &quot;How do I know this isn't a DeLorean?&quot; And I said, &quot;Look, I can tell you for a fact we are not selling cocaine out of the back of the factory in the cars.&quot; There's no DeLorean being the famous Back to the Future car where the owner was trafficking cocaine to underwrite the car. Exactly. Um I may live in Miami but in my entire life I just know we're not
[00:03:26] selling cocaine for sure. That I'm sure Uh yeah, but no, it was um it was a very it was a crew it was a crew betting event for us and it turned out right. It was right thing to do. But yeah, for me it was um I'm just deeply grateful for these experiences. But I mean, you really doubled down because you didn't just do Tesla. You also were there in some really critical moments at SpaceX as well. We were. Although I I tell you um
[00:03:48] you know, we doubled down at the time in Tesla. We put more money in Tesla in the middle of the crisis and then helped lead a convert round there that was really tough for us to do and then put money in SpaceX. But I tell you operationally, like in terms of capital stack, I think there were other people around and and SpaceX was also running out of money and so we put money into SpaceX. Operationally we were at SpaceX over the
[00:04:05] years, but it was never as existential in terms of the operations as it was at Tesla. I mean Tesla was truly I think truly existential and because we were operating guys and I myself had been a factory manager, I worked in auto parts and auto parts factory, I'd run industrial facilities myself, we could kind of uniquely add value there in the rocket factory, you know, we were just less valuable. Um but yeah, both these companies were
[00:04:26] going down at the same time and you know, the amount of stress we're all under was extraordinary. But you know, looking back on it, it's one of the greatest moments of my career. I mean the sense of fellowship, you know, one of the I think the great thing about being in our business, the business we're all in, is that we get to back amazing people that are trying to change the world and in these dark dark dark deep moments, we get to go to war
[00:04:45] for them. And it in those moments, I call them the these moments of fellowship where you just care deeply about someone and and passionate about the mission and you get to make a huge difference. Like these are the highlights of my career. And if you ask my partners, they'd tell you the same thing. These are the best moments. We've had some together. Three of us have had some together actually, we've all had some together here on the stage.
[00:05:06] We had to fight for something we believed in and it's it's a privilege man to do it. It's a privilege to be in that situation and it's a privilege to be with Elon. It's been a privilege to be there with with all of you at different moments in my career and I'm very grateful for it. How um do do you feel like you come off of a high after having huge successes like that? Like how do you stay grounded and motivated to try to find
[00:05:29] the next one if in the back of your mind there must be a little piece that says it's never going to be as good as this guy or those two things? I mean, you know, it is it's an interesting question Roelof. I think that there's a couple things in play for us. One is we keep going because we believe in making the world better. We invest in companies that we believe make a difference with people who we respect and who our values
[00:05:46] are aligned with and that's the that's the ethos of our firm, right? So, whether it's large or small, we may never find something that's as important as Tesla and SpaceX again, but we will find more great people, we will help them. You know, if you talk two of our companies here, I mean, we invested in Anduril with Palmer, we have a a small investment in Flexport, which should have been one of the biggest mistakes of
[00:06:04] the last 10 years of my career is not putting more money in Flexport. Yeah, I know. We we we we had a We actually It's kind of a funny story about We had you know, I'd say kind of a soft handshake on a on a term sheet at say a price of X and and SoftBank came in like 2 days later and made it 2X, and I had too much price memory to keep going and co-lead it, so it was an error. But you you had you have two people on the stage here
[00:06:24] that are extraordinary entrepreneurs that are trying to make the world better. Both both these companies are really are really great and and making them the world much more pretty now post-COVID and in times of war making it much safer for all of us. There are people like that out there. There's more of them. They may not be Elon, you know, we get We're probably one of Elon in our generation, but there's lots of great
[00:06:40] people, and I I'm very optimistic about what's happening now in the economy. We're seeing incredible incredible innovation with tremendous entrepreneurs um in our pipeline. So, maybe there's another one. I don't know. Hey Antonio, how do you think about the in the businesses you guys invest in, there can sometimes be a very long capital deployment cycle before you see any real return in it in terms of you know, business value,
[00:07:04] whether it's pharma I know you've done pharma, some of these hardware companies where there's a big build cycle. How much do you need to kind of think about and see a customer and revenue show up before you're willing to say, &quot;Hey, let's build the big rocket ship to go to the freaking moon?&quot; And how do you judge and value that business and back a team? It's a really good question. I need to depend It depends on the on the sector
[00:07:24] we're in. Yeah. And it it depends on how we we we look at the world share probabilistically, and we're looking for companies that we call pro-and-trough, where they get better when the world gets worse. So, in in the case of pharma or something like SpaceX, we'll think about like what is our prob- what is our probability tree here? What's probably loss? Probably have 3X or 5X or 10X or 100X? And and then we'll think about
[00:07:43] when the capital goes in, what is the actual return on capital? I was watching the talk you guys had with with Ryan about what happens to the public markets. The reality is that what what a business is a machine, you put capital in one side and out the other side comes return. The ROIC, the return on invested capital, really matters. And if you're a client of a Class B training investor the way I am, we think about that a lot.
[00:08:03] Yeah. So I don't know if we may be putting a lot of capital in, the question is what's the margin I mean the back end. A company like SpaceX, a lot of capital's going in, but we know that if it works, we believe it will work, we're ultimately going to have a a company that has tremendous margins even in the industrial sector because of the industry structure it's in. It lives in an oligopoly inside the US and outside the US. So
[00:08:21] it's like when building Starlink, same thing, capital going in, but we know that the the margins and the profitability of that business on the back end will be very very high, and so the ROIC will be very good. Are you backing Sorry, are you backing a lot of deep tech startups like companies A founder shows up with a PowerPoint, they're like, I need 50 million bucks to make our prototype. I mean What happens
[00:08:39] there? It depends on the business. So as an example, um you know, we have passed on things that are um our view going to have margins that are ultimately competed to a a low a low level. And, you know, there are I don't want to give examples here, but there are lots of examples of people that are doing things in, you know, I'll call it electric air gravity tolls, etc. We look at this and say, this is going to be a
[00:09:01] highly competitive market. These are not an end of one. SpaceX is an end of one. If you compare that to someone making electric vehicle that say electric airplane or electric vehicle, that will not be an end of one. It'll be an end of many. And in an end of many business, you're ultimately going to have margin competition that's going to make it the return on capital goes down to basic industrial margins, you know, like it
[00:09:20] won't be that much better than Boeing's ROIC or Airbus's ROIC because those will be ultimate competitors. You you said it a little too I think superficially, so let me just double click. And I think Antonio brings up I think one of the most important principles of investing that is so utterly poorly understood, which is ROIC, ROIC, return on invested capital. Most people don't even know what it means, how to calculate it, NOPAT over
[00:09:46] your weighted average cost of capital. These are enormously fundamental principles when you're running a business, especially in a moment like this, because when the rubber meets the road and you need a lot of money and you run into somebody as sophisticated as him, he's already worked from first principles to understand it. It's really, really, really important to know these things because these are the core foundations of valuation, you
[00:10:06] know? So, obviously DCFs are one framework, but ROIC is incredibly, incredibly important, especially when you make real things and you need to spend CapEx. Yeah, and it look in a world in the last 10 years where money's free, nobody thinks about this very much. We always have thought about it, which informs our investment model, but yeah, Chamath's right. I mean, in today's world, if you're an entrepreneur and you can show up and say, &quot;Listen, I
[00:10:26] have a 50, 60, 70% return on capital, every dollar you give me will yield a 70, 80% return on the back end, even though we're losing money along the way,&quot; that's a very compelling case relative to, &quot;Hey, we're losing a bunch of money, we're not always sure what's going to happen,&quot; which is what we hear a lot. This This also builds on the question from yesterday, which is how do you present yourself as,
[00:10:43] you know, a young, emerging company and cut through all the noise? An understanding of these things and about future value creation in a moment like this becomes really important as well. Even if people will debate whether it's right, people will give you credit for the intellectual honesty of actually going there and understanding these things. Really important. it a lot where companies slip away from first principles. So, you know, the
[00:11:06] first principles on a high-margin enterprise software business, you can define ARR and assume some, and then people say, &quot;Hey, some multiple of ARR is your valuation comp, like your, you know, your multiple.&quot; And then another company shows up and the margins are different, the growth profile is different, the revenue retention is different, it's a services business, and they try and use a similar sort of comp,
[00:11:26] and all of a sudden everyone's thinking about valuation as a function of some industry standard comp as opposed to going back to understanding, &quot;How did that comp get created in the first place and what's the nature of the business from which that comp arose and people are doing things like calling revenue ARR, you know, it's not even subscription revenue and so on. And I think that happens considerably more and
[00:11:44] then then that investing cycle just becomes, you know, hey, well, the next round will be this multiple and you know, that's how we'll get our incremental valuation and everyone just misses the the the core, you know, proposition of building a valuable business that can generate cash. What's your look through into the economy just from your portfolio companies? We We think I think we're in a recession. I mean, I don't I don't
[00:12:02] know if someone's already said this, but we're in a recession. We're in a recession and this will be like my, I don't know, 100th cycle or something. I'm I'm pretty old like the rest of us here. We've seen it We've seen it over and over again and you know, I see David's tweets about go raise two and a half years of money. This is correct. I mean, you're going to need you need enough capital to get through the
[00:12:15] problem. Uh but the good news about this recession and you know, there are there is some good news here, which is to me, if you look at the the macro picture here, it it looks like if you're going to look look at uh the amount of federal debt, the the state of the consumer and kind of what's happening in this transformation, it actually looks a little like post World War II to me. In that in in the World War in the World War II period, we had
[00:12:36] the last massive mobilization or demobilization of our economy occurred in World War II. Right. That happened again in COVID. When we change In in this case, it's like a mini version of remobilization that we're we're restarting the economy. We flooded the system with with money to get the to kind of buffer the problem then restart the economy and now we have inflation, but we also have lots of business formation and we have new ways of doing
[00:12:59] work, which is what happened after World War II. So, I'm I'm I'm very optimistic cuz most of these recessions, you know, to really get inflation down, we're going to have to reduce consumer demand and or change oil prices. So, for sure we should be putting oil in this country. I know it's not it's controversial, but that's important um to lower oil prices to get inflation down, but the reality is underneath the
[00:13:18] the the numbers, there's a lot of innovation happening and that's what happened kind of post World War II. So, I would say we're in a bit of a mini retooling. It's going to be a rough year or two. Uh hang on. It will be a rough year or two, but the consumers are pretty good shape. So they're not over levered. We should come out of okay and the US economy is so resilient man like, you know, we are all either one
[00:13:37] generation from being immigrants or immigrants here. I think most of us, right? It's the best place in the world to live. We're the most innovative economy in the world. We should I'm super optimistic what's happening here because there's so much innovation, so many smart people working so hard to make things better. Um, I think it's going to be great. I think we can get the next couple years it's going to be great. Talk about this