[01:19:20] office, and the liquidity cycle's gotten is reversed on us now, right? So, the denominator's gotten it's gotten harder to get capital. But for sure, I think I agree with Chamath here, like being able to allocate $10 million in a venture fund in 2 years over Zoom, and and think that's on just the metrics and not seeing people, I think that's a bad idea. Yeah, I'm talking about 250k, 500k checks. Might be okay. Take another
[01:19:40] question here. My name is Kenneth Brown III, and my favorite bestie is Jay Clouse, the charisma's legendary. He's my favorite bestie, too, by the way. Don't be offended. And then my question is, what advice would you give to non-technical people trying to fit into the tech-oriented startup venture world? I'm an econ major, but this just seems exciting. Like, how do I become a part of it? Chamath, you have thoughts?
[01:20:07] And I I think that the the best way to do this is to find a company you think is great and get a job. That's a reality. I mean, I would just I would associate myself with a business that I really respect or respect. And if the job is in the mailroom, or the job is the job is the janitor, whatever, just figure it out because what happens with high-growth companies is they need good people. And you'll be surprised how
[01:20:27] much being the first person in and the last person to leave, if there's an office, and doing the work that people ask you to do with a smile and a great attitude. Like those people, they move up fast. So, I would just find a way in, man. Wherever it is, however it is, make it happen and start moving up. I can't I You By the way, you're you're you're you're not you're not non-technical. You're not yet technical.
[01:20:48] And I think that's the opportunity that sits in front of everyone that you can become technical. I had a my fam- a cousin who was a music major at UCLA, worked in music. And then he came back from COVID and he started learning how to program online, taught himself, spent 6 months in his parents' basement teaching himself how to retool his life, and got some contract jobs on Reddit and boards and other stuff, and he got this amazing
[01:21:14] full-time job offer a few weeks ago. And it was really amazing that I got to watch him transform himself and his life over the last year and a half just by taking that on himself, and he became technical. It wasn't that he had a non-technical degree, it's that he just wasn't yet technical. And I think everyone has that opportunity. I'll tell you I'll tell you a great quick story. He's a minority guy, grew up in Houston.
[01:21:35] Um really wanted to work at Tesla, couldn't get a job, couldn't get a job, couldn't get a job. Finally got a job on the line. He was making 16, 20 bucks an hour. Worked there, did well, transferred, worked there, did well, transferred, ends up in the supply chain group, ends up working in battery supply chain, ends up basically being two layers between him and Elon. Gets into an MBA, goes there for a few years, uh works on the side,
[01:22:03] uh and he ended up raising a bunch of money to start a battery business recently. And this is an example of what he just said, which is, you know, there are these jobs available, and then it's just, you know, is your chutzpah and your hustle. And he's an example, but it's a very motivating example to me because it just shows it's so possible. You know, and these there are phenomenal organizations that identify talent and will move you up
[01:22:26] really quickly. And knowledge is literally free and experience is up to you. Yeah, the the the overriding I think advice you're getting here is that skills are acquirable and my lord, getting to 50-60% proficiency on a skill just given what's on YouTube or MIT OpenCourseWare or any number of websites, you can do it in a matter of weeks. Now, of course, going from 60-70, 70-80, that that might take months and then
[01:22:53] eventually years. But startups are looking for generalists. They're looking for people who can say I I need somebody who's going to do the accounting and figure out how to do an email merge and build a mailing list and then I need somebody to help with recruiting. If you can just become 30, 40, 50% as you know, good at each of those things at a startup, you know, before people get specialized, eventually you'll have 10 people doing
[01:23:15] recruiting. But in the beginning it's 1/3 of somebody's job. So, I love startups for that. of a great culture of a company is how little the obvious labels matter once you're inside of it. And the best companies like a Tesla can become a trillion-dollar market cap because they find the kid working on the line and then 4 years later is running the battery supply chain. How does that happen? It happens because you're looking at the
[01:23:44] quality of the individual and their potential. Where they went to school doesn't matter, their gender doesn't matter, their ethnicity doesn't matter. None of it matters because the people don't see it. They see work ethic. They see efforts. Yeah, they see effort, they see integrity. So, that's another litmus test for you is like in the companies, even if you're a CEO and if you're building, if every other day you're reminding everybody
[01:24:06] else of like where people need to have gone to school and where they should have been that's a road to nowhere. Let's give Antonio a big round of applause. Very nice stuff. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very No problem. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Jay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you. brother. Thank you. Love you. Talk to you soon. Thank you. Cheers, brother. Thank you. Next question. Thank
[01:24:28] you, guys. Over here. Yeah. Um Sunny Lambarba here. you, Tony. We have been here for like 2 hours. I feel bad. He's like He's like, &quot;I've never been on a show before.&quot; All right. We're going to just take 14 to 20 more questions. Go. Sunny Lambarba here. Um Chamath's my favorite bestie. Yeah. There you go. Huh? Because of him I A little dry spell, huh? Because of him I shop at Loro Piana only. So, thank you.
[01:24:58] So, just got a question um for Friedberg. I know that you wanted to talk about this yesterday about this sort of uh consumer credit crisis on the horizon that you see as potentially like the next shoe to drop. So, um I think you wanted to mention something yesterday about it, but because of time and stuff Uh I mean, I I I don't have anything more to add than what I said on the pod. I'm not like I don't think this
[01:25:17] is like a a high certainty. I I'm just concerned there's a lot of loans out there, a lot of buy now pay later, a lot of stuff that that has floating rates attached to it. If we're going to have a recession, we're going to see job loss, you're going to see these um and by the way, these auto loan portfolios have like crazy outperformed over the last few years. And now that these and a lot of those auto loans are
[01:25:38] floating rate, um those asset values are inflated, people are losing jobs. You could see a bunch of these things start to create a bit of a cascading effect over the next couple quarters depending on how this all goes. Um so, I I'm not I'm not going to put my foot down on the ground and say, &quot;Oh my god, consumer credit bubble. We're totally [ __ ] It's going to lead to the great next great recession.&quot;
[01:25:56] Um but I do think it's going to be pretty kind of surprising. Buy now pay later, I saw a stat. I don't know if you guys saw this this week on how a lot of the people that are going on buy now pay later sites are actually maxed out on their credit cards. And so, they're actually fully credited out. And then all the smart algorithms are like, &quot;Oh yeah, you're a good credit risk.&quot; Like Oops. Here's Here's $1,800 to buy a
[01:26:17] Peloton or Lightning round. Five questions and we're done. Yeah. One bestie will answer each question. Go. Cool. Uh David Friedberg, you're my favorite bestie. Uh what problem do you most want to solve right now? Oh, binary lifters, actually. Uh edible quinoa. Actually, I have been working on the So, look, I I've I've spoken about this publicly. I think it's a big problem. I was going to talk about it in the talk
[01:26:42] that we scrapped, but I'll I'll do it another time. Um which is really the opportunity for biomanufacturing as a way to replace um a lot of traditional food systems, including all of ag, all of animal agriculture, um and a lot of the systems that we use to basically make our food. Um it's a it's a big infrastructure play, you know, a couple square miles, you know, using Elon's analogy, you could basically recreate all the food on
[01:27:06] Earth. And you could distribute those systems. Um and uh and so I I think that it can be extremely carbon negative. It sucks carbon out of the atmosphere. Um it would create incredible jobs. It's an incredible infrastructure opportunity. It would return billions of acres of land back to kind of, you know, whatever form, natural form we want them to be. So, that's an area that I'm spending a lot of time in and um that I'm
[01:27:28] particularly uh excited about. Awesome. Thank you for Okay, number two. Hi there. I'm Katie Croft. Nice to see you all. Imagine a parallel timeline where I say you're all my favorite, uh cuz it's all true. Um so, I'm curious, kind of extension of the media question, uh have you given much thought to forming a consortium or community um with the All-In podcast and kind of what further applications of that, because if you think about the
[01:27:52] force multiplicity of like any number of these minds in the same room working towards the problems you've talked about from education to unfurling energy, it could probably be pretty considerable the impact there, cuz we have such respect for the what you guys do and how you're doing it and the discourse you're having, that, you know, we're clearly all diehards here. So, I'm just curious if you've thought about it. I'm kind of
[01:28:11] kind of trying to inception you here. You Cal, want to take that? Yeah, I think so. I mean, uh this is a [ __ ] ton of work, but I think it it is and we all have day jobs. You know, step one was to try to just see and I told I told the besties, let's just see if we can each make getting to the pod each week a priority and a habit and and that took the first year or so. So now it is a habit. We all value doing this. It has had tremendous
[01:28:36] impact on our lives personally, professionally. It's been very inspiring for each of us. So we had to lock into that first. Doing this, you know, was a ton of work and we'll see if it's sustainable and we have some other ideas. We wanted to do a college tour was the other thing we were considering, which would be like 3,000 seats or 4,000 seats and just an episode of the pod and Q&amp;A. So I think that could be the next
[01:28:57] card to fall. And then maybe hiring Tim Urban and Nate Silver and then having them build a media company to take on CNN. Yeah, we haven't really given it much thought, but you never know. They were here totally randomly. Yeah, right. They were here totally random. We're not reporting or anything, but you know, anything's possible. Hi Besties again. I'm Rejoice. I run a talent marketplace for early entry workers. We use gamification to
[01:29:20] accelerate their upskilling. I just The question is about the great resignation, which we believe is a half-told narrative. So how can small businesses, which are most sole proprietors, democratize their own labor supply and demand? Wow. Um I think that's a very difficult problem to solve. Um I think again, if as a supporter of capitalism, I think one of the biggest things that we don't get right is how money gets to
[01:29:54] the right problems. I've said this roughly before, but like money is really just a voting way of deciding what you think is important in the world. And that's why the accumulation of money as just a practical matter. Forget moral or physiolog- philosophical is so important because you can vote what you want. The thing is that aggregation happens easily, distribution is terribly broken. And so, the ability for folks to solve
[01:30:22] practical problems is very hard because the ROI isn't obvious. And getting money from capital pools like us to individuals and sole proprietors is a basic I think it is a very broken problem. A, because the systems don't exist. B, because the laws don't allow it. And until that gets solved, I'm not exactly sure how a business who can actually like build for the future well or solve their supply forecast or demand forecast
[01:30:48] can actually get the capital you need because the lubricant that allows you to solve that problem is money. It has always been, will always be. But getting it to those people is legally hard and it's organizationally impractical. Um I don't know if you saw the last spot. I mentioned this thing. We tried this thing called capital as a service. Doesn't get to the sole proprietor level, but it gets to like small 5 to
[01:31:10] 10% companies. We would send 50 to 100,000 dollar checks. Here's how hard it is. The cost of getting a 50,000 dollar check, we did this uh fishery in Indonesia. It cost us 125,000 to give them 50,000. We still did it cuz I just wanted to prove the point. They ended up tripling our money. So, we barely kind of like broke even. Um but it just goes to show you how really common Okay, fourth question and then one more after that.
[01:31:39] Hey, I'm Prem. Uh as a Waterloo poker player, favorite bestie is Chamath. Uh I'm very in into next gen manufacturing, but as a pre-seed investor, my concern is follow-on financing. How do we get more investors interested in investing in the physical world because at least in Canada, it seems like most investors only want to invest in software. No, I think I I this is what I'm saying. I think there's a very broken part of the
[01:32:04] capitalism right now, which is that technology investors, by and large, and I don't mean to disparage anyone here, are not well rooted in the principles of math and finance. And I think that that's a real problem because in a moment like this, that is where you can actually make safe investments of capital. You can structure the money in so that you are capital protected. You have assets to back these things. And the reason why
[01:32:28] folks don't do it is they don't understand how to put together a model to demonstrate it. And then the person that is then receiving that information is unfortunately not as well instructed as they should be to understand how to make a decision from that. That's what we have today. So it's a it's a little bit of a mis-education problem. And it's going to affect the non-sexy areas. Rockets will always get money,
[01:32:51] but like 3D manufacturing at scale may at scale may not because of this exact issue, cuz people don't know what ROIC means. Sir, you have the final question. Favorite best year is Friedberg, and hate to end on a recession question. Christ. But never asking that question again. Jeez. Why Why do you guys Why do Let me ask, why do you guys think it upsets you so much? Like Well, because you're the biggest pain in the ass You are the most
[01:33:15] [ __ ] neurotic person. Every time we post an episode, we should cancel the episode. We [ __ ] everything up again. Why do we keep screwing up? We're going to destroy the I read the first nine comments, and the the downvote rate I was on YouTube. Somebody said the volume the volume going, but go ahead. The amount of noise we deal with from this one person, it's It's like literally He doesn't know He should not reward him.
[01:33:38] It's like his inner monologue feeding a feeding frenzy. You know, if you had a 2-year-old child who you've given too much candy to, who's kicking and screaming and screaming Yeah. Unbelievable. All right, final If one guy can shut him up, it's Phil DeFranco, everyone. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so it seems like a common theme on the stage these last couple days is you all feel like we're in a recession or heading towards a recession, but I get a
[01:34:00] feeling that you have the confidence that this is going to be a quick recession, like a year. So, my question would be why do you feel after 13 years of market manipulation by the Fed that it's going to be cured in under a year? No, I think you're right. The average recession as measured to like if you look back historically is two quarters. Um the problem is that we've never really figured out what it's going to
[01:34:23] take with the distortion of money that never should have been in the system. Because if you think of a supply demand imbalance as being a naturally self-balancing phenomenon, if you perturb one side of it by an enormous amount, exactly to your point, I think the open question that the world has right now is is that really a two-quarter problem? Well, the Fed has told you that they're going to take 3 years to get 3 trillion.
[01:34:48] You've heard from David that 10 trillion was put in. Probably another 3 or 4 trillion was productively used. But that still leaves another 3 trillion of sloshing around money that we don't know. So, I think it's an open question. I don't know what you guys think. Freeburg, how many months? Uh how many quarters? Sachs, how many quarters if you had to guess? I again, I just hate this definition of recession where it's about GDP decline