[00:24:43] poker game? Yeah, and it it it was actually so degenerate. What really happened after that was I was in Las Vegas in 2011. I had just left Facebook. I moved to Vegas. And I was on the phone with Sachs in between playing tournaments and he like let me in invest in Yammer literally like and you know you did me an incredible solid because I put money in and you know what this is like 9 months later he sells to Microsoft and I
[00:25:11] returned a third of my first fund. Ooh, yum yum. And it really solidified my reputation. So I mean I owe you a big one for that. Well, anyway I got to say something about this though. So David Sacks I've known David for 25 years. He did Yammer. I wanted to put money in. He said no cuz if This is not this is a true story. This is a true story. He said no. He said He said no because if this fails you are my backup plan.
[00:25:37] Oh, for a job? Yes. Well, he didn't offer me a he didn't offer me a job. David to come join me. I've tried to get David to I was so afraid of losing everyone's money when I founded a company, you know? He literally took a little sack from me. I wanted to have like one friend who's my I didn't I didn't lose. But you know, that was the wrong way of thinking about it. We should have We should have Free birth? I
[00:25:54] mean how how how is the game? Well, I'll I'll look before Chamath, are you leaving? No, I'm getting glasses. come come come come back for a sec. Okay. He'll get glasses. Okay. He's getting one. I'll tell I'll tell you guys one thing. Chamath is one of the most generous people you will ever meet. Unbelievable. He He's unbelievable. Unbelievable. And for all of his for all of his bluster about his freaking mink coats and [ __ ]
[00:26:15] like Chinchilla. uh chinchilla uh he has brought together a group and he largely is the reason that I think the game grows and goes on and you saw some of the amazing people that we've had on stage here. Some of our friends are here that we play in our game with. That um really that that network has been built and solidified because of Chamath and his generosity and friendship. That's it's it's really um something I've I've
[00:26:38] learned to appreciate in my life and You know. Thank you. Say thanks. Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's it's a tremendous group and uh yeah. Amazing people like Amazing people and Yeah. The consistency of it has been amazing um from a generous group. Chamath had this like little tiny $2 million house with like a one and a half car garage when he was at Facebook and we we would play in the garage. That little tiny place you had,
[00:27:02] remember? yeah. Um you know, before you bought the two houses next door and knocked them down and you know, gentrified. But true story, um Sachs said, &quot;Hey, you know, you're doing these conferences, you should invest in the companies and this is when I put the fix in for him to win TechCrunch 50 at Yammer.&quot; With Yammer, he said, &quot;I have to win.&quot; And then he his wife told my wife he has to win. So then I basically
[00:27:26] got the whole jury to to vote for him at Yammer. He wins and he goes, &quot;Hey, Schmuck.&quot; All my success is due to Jay Cal. You guys understand that, It was a good It was a good fix. I put the fix in for him. But he said, &quot;Listen, I want to thank you for this and you should start a fund. Instead of doing all this work at the conference, why don't you just invest in the companies? I'll put 250k into your fund.
[00:27:45] I'll be the anchor.&quot; I said, &quot;That's incredible, really?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And then I went to the poker table, I told the story and then Dave Goldberg, rest in peace, one of our our great friends, um and and certainly the the best amongst us. Thank you. Um he uh he said, &quot;I'll put money into it.&quot; Thank you. And uh he put money in. And then Bill Lee said, &quot;I'll put money in.&quot;
[00:28:02] And everybody said they'd put money in. Free Beer said, &quot;I'll take a pass.&quot; Um But you know, we'll put that aside. Anyway, um Hey, I was all locked up in other stuff. Yeah, he's like, &quot;I got a quinoa farm I've got to take care of.&quot; Fellowship. And this is a true This is a true story. Uh Bill Lee's there, uh he couldn't make it to here, but he's one of our great friends and and and one of Elon's best
[00:28:31] friends in the world and um he said, &quot;Of course I'm in. Um would you mind if I if I tell our billionaire friend um the the co-founder of um eBay, Jeff Skoll?&quot; And uh he tells them, uh Jay Cal's doing a fund, you should do it. I meet Jeff Skoll's money manager uh uh uh Yann and I I said, &quot;Hey, here's what I'm doing. I'm a first-time fund manager. I don't know what the [ __ ] I'm doing. I'm a former journalist.&quot; And he said, &quot;How
[00:28:57] much is the fund?&quot; I said, &quot;10 million.&quot; He said, &quot;I'll take half.&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm sorry.&quot; And he said, &quot;I'll take 5 million.&quot; And that was the biggest check I ever got and it was because of ability. And literally that first fund uh was raised around the poker table in one night. And uh that changed the trajectory of my career. And that really is the fellowship in it. It started with
[00:29:17] David and you hosting and I remember it's like yesterday and I I think maybe also a good moment to uh just maybe cheers to to Goldie. Uh Yeah. Dave Goldberg. Yeah. Cheers. No longer with us. And Tony Hsieh who played in the game as well. Two incredible men. Next question. Hey, um my name is Bobin. Favorite bestie is Chamath. Great to uh meet you all tonight. Um way, Antonio is also our people, too. All right, listen. We know Chamath is
[00:29:45] bestie quick with the question. Let's go. Yeah. My main question is like when you guys actually decided to manage capital for people, like what really was the scariest step in taking that leap and taking that risk? I know a lot of you are GPs, solo GPs, so I mean, Zach, you made a big leap. What was the scariest step? Well, I mean, even as a founder, like I mentioned before, I was like so worried about losing people's money. I mean,
[00:30:12] that was like I mean, I don't know if like founders today even care that much. That this seems but They don't. It just seems like, &quot;Oh, company didn't work, move on to the next one.&quot; Um I mean, maybe that will change now that the environment's not going to be as free-flowing, but I was always like really worried I was going to lose people's money. And, you know, it was something that sort of came out of that.
[00:30:30] I started Social Capital, I think I was playing I we I was either playing golf or I had dinner with Chase Coleman in New York. And Chase says to me, &quot;I'll tell you the one piece of advice Julian gave me when I started Tiger Global.&quot; I said, &quot;What was that?&quot; This is 2011. He said, &quot;This is a death sentence.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Well, what does that mean?&quot; And he said, &quot;You're the only
[00:30:51] person that's going to live with this because you're responsible, especially based on who your LPs are, for folks that if you really think about who they are, it's just going to create this thing there.&quot; And it's like, you know, and I was I was lucky in that moment cuz we were we were able to get like the Knight Foundation and Mayo Clinic and these folks that are doing these good works, but then you're representing
[00:31:11] their capital. It's heavy. It's heavy because you make this decision. Yeah. And if it's wrong, you just feel literally like you're derelict and you're taking money away from sick children or, you know, free speech. I mean, it's it was a That's a brutally stressful thing to lose money on behalf of people. By the way, I'll I'll recommend if any as a founder if you raise money, raise money from your friends, too.
[00:31:35] And it'll really change how you operate. Yeah, I mean, I I raised the first fund from my friends, and I tell you I took every single deal very seriously, and I did my diligence, and I was very thoughtful about it. How about you, Antonio? Oh man, our first fund There are two fears I had. The first one was raised from I live in Chicago from my friends in Chicago, and I literally said to one of my partners at the time, &quot;If this doesn't
[00:31:56] work, I have to move.&quot; I'll have to literally leave Chicago cuz in Chicago you might get killed if you [ __ ] with them in that way. This is not like I thought you were meaning the weather. No, no, no. I mean, these guys lose your money Yeah, exactly. These guys lose your money, people kind of like, &quot;Oh, I'm sad about it.&quot; Chicago like break your legs, they burn your house down, man. That's a whole different Hold everything. All
[00:32:14] right, let's take another question. Oh, sorry. No, keep going. No, the second thing I mean, honestly, the worst thing for me, the most scary thing for me was just the people. I had I had three or four guys that I worked with building companies before that, and I knew that I just felt if I disappointed them, if I we failed, um I would have felt terrible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It certainly makes you uh focus on the game. It's
[00:32:31] like being staked in poker, you play better. Uh sir. I have a question for the 17th most important person from PayPal. Oh, okay. I'm kidding. I'm just kidding. Oh, David. Obviously Friedberg is my favorite bestie. Okay, all right, science boy. Let's go. We've been Let's go, nerd. Unbelievable, the Friedberg love. All right, Friedberg, soak it in. Uh you've been talking about uh how all this increased money supply has been
[00:32:57] sending the asset prices up and now it's unwinding. I don't think we've heard you talked about crypto specifically. Bitcoin has obviously come down, but it's still over three times uh where it was pre-pandemic. Curious what you think will happen in that world as this unwinds. You You want me to address that? Sure. Or Or were you going you. 17th most important guy from PayPal. so the the thing the thing about the
[00:33:17] crypto market to understand is that it's like a liquidity sponge. The more liquidity there is out there, the more people feel empowered to make speculative investments, and crypto is like the most speculative. Now, that's not to say um you know, it's not real. I I actually do believe in Bitcoin. I think uh there'll be a number of other um sort of alt currencies that work, but probably the vast majority will not, and
[00:33:44] there's been a tremendous amount of speculation and inflation there, and so that space is in the process of correcting. You know, I've never been able to say like what the right price levels for any of this stuff are. Um let's say you believe in Bitcoin long-term. Let's say you believe it's going to be the first non-fiat currency, what price should that be today? You know, I It's It's There's no like discount or capital analysis you can
[00:34:09] apply to it. So, it's always been very hard to know what the prices of these things should be. And so, in practice, the price is a function of how much liquidity is in the system. And when you go through a period of liquidity getting destroyed, it's no surprise that crypto goes first with it. Antonio, have you touched I mean, you you were so into physical assets and building real things like spaceships and rocket ships.
[00:34:31] When you watch this crypto bubble, you know, grow and burst and grow and burst and now it's burst again, what's your take? Well, first I want to tell you I bought my first crypto I mean I think in 2017 because David Sacks and Bill Lee were pushing the Ponzi scheme on me. So they were like they were I was at a birthday party. I think you probably were there too J Cal. They were like they were they were hawking Bitcoin. So I bought some.
[00:34:53] Nobody had heard of it at that point. I think it was like I think it was like 800 bucks a Bitcoin. So here here's my my general view. I actually think I think that Bitcoin in particular is a bet on a rising political risk and on political freedom. Economic freedom is is closely related to political freedom. And last time I looked Ukrainians are the third largest holders of Bitcoin. And if I were sitting in Taiwan today, I would have 10
[00:35:15] 50% of my assets in Bitcoin. So this this removes the ability to control currency capital controls from governments. I think this is very important and it should survive. Price levels, I don't know. I do have a you know, a reasonable amount of Bitcoin as a is a hedge to political risk globally. And that's how we think about it. We have invested in infrastructure assets in and around a blockchain with Dave. We have a couple assets because we
[00:35:39] believe that blockchain itself is a platform shift in the technology of tracking assets. This is a real thing and it's going to happen. It's going to change the way we do finance. So we invest in infrastructure. Got it. Let's take another question. Titus right. over there. Oh, I'm sorry. We're going to take one from here. We'll alternate. So Titus right. Yeah, hi. Carmontre CEO of Preedo. I have to say I'm a science nerd Freeberg, but J Cal,
[00:36:05] it's been awesome today. Um I and I want to say you guys like your courage and bravery to do what you've done with the pod and watching this today. Like thank you. Thank you. Yeah, you've talked a lot about later stage. I'm wondering if you could like tune in a little bit more on on pre-seed and seed and kind of what you're seeing in terms of evaluations and metrics that that you've got to hit in in the earlier
[00:36:34] stages. It's very simple. You know, I invested in Uber, Thumbtack, and Calm for $15 million combined. That was their combined valuation. Post money. Post money and those all three companies had products in the market. And then what we saw over the last 5 years is people wanting credit for a white paper, a prototype, an MVP to the tune of 15 to 50 million dollars. And we did sit out some of those and said, &quot;Listen, when the product is
[00:37:04] ready, let's take a look at the product and talk to the first two or three customers.&quot; To David's point about zero to one customers is the really hard uh hurdle and um now it's back down to 6 to 15 million for a company that has a product in market and maybe 50 to 100 times yearly revenue for evaluation. So, to the extent you can get to 200k in yearly revenue, you can get, you know, a 10 to 20 million dollar
[00:37:30] valuation. So, I'd say halfway back to normal and perhaps a permanent, uh you know, livable reset because the outcomes have been pretty fantastic. So, the early stage should go up. The only thing you really need to raise money is to build a world-class product and just get a couple of customers who are absolutely uh blown away by what you've built. That's all you need, but everybody gets concerned with the theatrics and the
[00:37:55] performative stuff and their network and nonsense and who you are and where you came from. None of it matters. Build a world-class product that two or three people are obsessed with and you'll get the seed check. Focus. Yeah, I think Brad If Brad Gerstner had uh sorry to interrupt your applause, Jay Cal. I know that's important to you. Um I'll take what little I can get. So, I think Brad Gerstner made a really
[00:38:21] important point on this, which is the new normal is going to look like the old normal, meaning the pre-COVID normal. We had the the the abnormal period was this 2-year COVID period where 10 trillion liquidity is pumped into the system. Things are going back to what they looked like before all that happened, and maybe before the Fed started with this zero-interest-rate policy. So, we're actually getting back to normal.
[00:38:44] Understand that the the environment we're entering now is is the normality. The abnormal period was the inflation we saw in assets over the past couple of years. That's the like reset that everyone's going to have to like wrap their heads around. So, Sach, you're my boy. Finally. Finally. One percent. I I I I I think there may be some preference falsi- falsification around this because people don't want to admit
[00:39:08] they're conservative. All the polling All the polling shows this. So, but anyway, thank you, sir. And your second favorite bestie is Tucker. Go. Uh for early-stage SaaS investors, which most of you are, in an increasingly digital world where there are large SaaS solutions for nearly everything, how do you think about selecting companies and founders in the early stage that are coming to market with a small amount of
[00:39:33] utility, and how do you think about they compete with companies with already-established customer distribution? Yeah, so I think you know, one of the things that I really like about SaaS, which is you know, software as a service, basically B2B software. It's business software, okay, that's sold as as a subscription, is that the world's never going to run out of new ideas for business software. Business keeps changing, so therefore, the software
[00:39:56] that businesses need will keep changing, and there will always be an opportunity there for new companies, new verticals, new new niches. There'll always be um you know, new new ideas. And so, I'm never worried about running out in terms of how we evaluate the actual idea, you know, uh we've actually been super transparent around the metrics that we need to see. It really does start with um a company hitting the metrics hurdle