[01:06:04] this guy. So. Phenomenal investor. Back when I was on the founder side of the table. So. Good brawler. Yeah, for sure. That's why I got him a samurai sword for his birthday. He did. Yes, I did. What did you get for his birthday? A samurai sword. The collection of samurai swords in my apartment started with David Sachs's samurai sword. Ah, very nice, very nice. Thank you, David. Very sharp, too. Don't let your kids try to play with it
[01:06:27] or something. It was not a toy. Yes. Not a toy. Friedberg, anything in that long-term storage tape drives of a I don't know. I've made a lot of mistakes. Um it's really hard. I I'm very hard on myself. Um When I was young, I always said there's no limit. And I always believed that. And when I hit walls in my life, it was very um very difficult because it it totally countered what I what I felt was possible. I always thought everything
[01:07:02] was going to be a success. I was there's no way I'm going to let anything [ __ ] fail. There's no way I'm going to let anything not work. My voice is cracking not cuz I'm crying because I'm losing my voice. So, um We know it's It's all we need. If you cry now, everybody's going to be crying. Now it's all free perks. My It's all for the vote. It's all for the vote. He actually does have emotions, see? But I I would say um He's smart and
[01:07:26] kind. Yeah. And a vegan. Yeah. He's perfect. The biggest mistake I made He's my dream boyfriend. Maybe coming on the stage was the biggest mistake I made. You're drowning in the pot. Oh, man. But I think Antonio's point is right. You know, you just have to be willing to to learn and and evolve. It's uh you know, I I now know that my life isn't about everything I do has to work 100% of the time. Um and being so hard on myself caused a
[01:07:57] lot of like emotional challenges for me over time. But getting getting to this point where I can now be much more calculated um and just move forward quickly and learn from it has been a big evolution for me. That's just a general statement, but yeah. Yeah, I and I would Oh, sorry, Jason. Well, no, it's okay. I just I would say I I was thinking about it while these guys were being so candid and I was immediately going to punt and
[01:08:18] go to the next question, but I thought that would be unfair. Um you know, what? I think two things. One, I think a lot of my decision-making early on was out of fear, fear of losing whatever I had gained up until that point. So, although I was a risk-taker and I was being bold in one way, I was also throttling myself because I was just so scared that I would lose whatever gains I had. And it it made me an imperfect manager of
[01:08:41] people, an imperfect person, maybe on edge a little too much and maybe not picking my battles. To David's point, I saw everything as a battle because those wins were so important to me cuz they were so hard-fought. Um and then I think later in my life I realized I never actually thought about what I enjoyed. I just thought about winning um an extent that was not healthy and uh then after Dave Goldberg died and Tony
[01:09:05] Shay died, I really took a self-assessment of what I enjoyed doing. And I mentioned this yesterday, you know, hanging out with these gentlemen and and and to Antonio's way of phrasing it, which is just beautiful, the fellowship. I thought that's the joy, you know, my family, my kids, my wife, and this fellowship with my friends that I wanted to invest in. And I I made a deliberate effort to be a better friend,
[01:09:27] a better parent, a better husband uh and cuz of all the gains I got from that and the joy that I got from it. And and I just thought a little bit, &quot;God, I do like those conversations. I do like writing the book. Do like throwing the events. I'm just going to do things I enjoy.&quot; Which took me 30 years of my career to actually assess, &quot;What is it that I like?&quot; And maybe I should enjoy the journey a little bit more. So, I
[01:09:47] think it's a great question. I appreciate it. Let's take one more. Thank you. Enjoy the journey. Hi besties, my name's Arya. I was the third or fourth employee at DoorDash. Um and my question is regarding Oh, sorry. My favorite bestie Yeah, that was a joke, by the way. My favorite bestie is Chamath and Sachs, although it's honestly Sophie's choice. Um my question's regarding the positive impact that Silicon Valley could have on
[01:10:15] the political discourse and politics, which I know, you know, there's typically an aversion to in tech. Um you know, you all have done a fantastic job outlining what those problems are as well as your guests. Um what I'm wondering is what a viable path forward looks like. You know, Chamath, you mentioned that people in DC pay close attention to the podcast. Sachs has recently endorsed Michael Shellenberger, which I really hope can
[01:10:37] save our home state. And I'm wondering is is the solution something akin to a third party, like what Andrew Yang is trying to do or some new, I don't know, Silicon Valley techno party or, you know, is there is you know, what what does that look like? I'm curious. Well, I don't think it's set up to actually have a third party structurally in America. So, what you have to do, practically speaking, is field more
[01:10:59] centrist normal people on both sides, whether they're Republicans or Democrats. That's a practical thing that we can all do, and then we can all show up and vote for those people so that the the majority voice is much clearer than it is today because right now the fringe is a little bit get to hijack the process. Um and so we take things that are that should be common sense and we pervert them in a way that just makes no
[01:11:21] progress possible. Um I really do think that we have that impact. I'm not sure how much can be of that can be quantified, but when I spend time in DC, I think it's true what I was told and what I've heard from people. It's basically required listening or viewing. It helps shape people's opinions. Doesn't mean they follow it, but I think it helps people think about things in a more normal way. I think what happened today is like a
[01:11:47] perfect example. Like the way that Glenn Greenwald and Antonio Garcia Martinez debate, like that's probably for some of you was really unsettling, maybe? Raise your hand if you were just like you felt awkward. Honestly, just be honest with you. Okay, well, you shouldn't because that's normal. My point is it helps you make it seem more normal because those guys were not saying to each other that you're worthless and you're not They were just
[01:12:09] debating. By the way, we went out for a beer after that. Yeah, this is my point. The three of us. I was like, okay, we need to like go out and get a drink and cool down. So, yeah, it was enjoyable. I'm not chastising you for feeling that way. I'm just saying this is what the culture does to folks. It makes you even afraid to hear people debate things and still have respect for each other. The way that he and Palmer
[01:12:28] kind of dealt with that was it That's incredible. The courage that Palmer had to say what he did, and then for him to be the first guy to walk out and then to own that, that's a I think those are really important moments, and you have You You have 700 more people capable of being that way because of what just happened. So, yeah. I think it's a slow march, but I think we're we're doing we're we're riding a small
[01:12:56] dent in a small way. 20 years ago, every political show on TV was a debate format. Like going all the way back to William F. Buckley versus Gore Vidal or Pat Buchanan versus Michael Kinsley on Crossfire. I mean, they were all debates. Now, like none of them are debates. It's all just their own little echo chambers. I think it's one of the reasons why this pod is successful is we actually can have debates and there is a
[01:13:20] divergence of views. What what do you think, Antonio? Is there Is there some Have you ever listened to this pod? Um I I was on one once dancing in the background. Oh, that's right. Yes. Thank you, dancing bear. Yeah, he did dance behind make an appearance. I recorded an episode from his house. Yeah. Um well, I mean, you look at politics, any interest there, any any any um you know, behind-the-scenes work you've
[01:13:41] done and and how do you think about it just as we get into as Gen Xers? Boomers are going away. I mean, we're going to kind of inherit this whether we like it or not. Yes, I would I would say a couple of things. First, um whenever you have times, you look historically, I think it's important to contextualize this. When you have moments of of large technological change, you always have political disruption. Because the means of communication have
[01:14:03] changed. This the Gutenberg press, the tall ship, and you just go back and look. It always leads to a lot of disruption and often to war. And so, the question of are those of us who are technologists at the top of the system, do we have a responsibility to steward this technology responsibly? We absolutely do. I believe we do. And I think that has been forgotten. That's number one. Number two, I have been involved in campaigns um
[01:14:27] and it's interesting right now what I'm doing is supporting any centrist candidate that I think is good on either side of the aisle. I'm a registered Democrat. I've supported Democrats for most of my life, but the reality is now all I care about is sensible people that I think are really good. And I'm engaging in micro-targeting efforts across the spectrum in in primary races. I would encourage all of you and anyone
[01:14:47] up here who cares about the American book system, to engage in the primaries. Because the primaries are what determines the quality of the candidates that actually are up for election, and they're actually decided by very few people. Yeah. Like, how many of us actually voted in the primary? Like, very few of you. Very few of you, okay? So, rather than us just complain about the divisiveness of American politics, next time, please go vote in a
[01:15:12] primary. And go vote for the centrist candidate. By the way, did did I hear a lot of support for Michael Shellenberger out there? Let's have him on the pod, maybe. Yeah. My favorite boss is Chamath. I I heard you speak with Vinod Khosla at I Hack the North at the University of Waterloo. Uh so, my question is uh Mark talked about these like startup journey systems like Stanford or PayPal. Do you see like over the
[01:15:42] pandemic, do you see any like remote or distributed systems that have like appeared, or do you see any like building that are not just centered in one geographical location? honest. I'm not a huge believer in this whole decentralized work movement. I don't think any high-quality work can get done um on on on difficult problems. So, I think that there are types of products and types of problems that can be solved in a remote way.
[01:16:10] Certain forms of software for certain kinds of products. But, for example, let's just say you're trying to engineer, you know, a a a pharma drug. I don't believe that unless you're sitting there collaborating, talking, debating, you can do that necessarily over a Zoom. If you're trying to build something physical, you know, we have a business that 3D prints rockets. Those guys can't do that by just, you know, zooming around and having a couple
[01:16:38] calls. That doesn't happen. So, I I think it's too premature to kind of say working together has no value. I also think there's a huge cultural divide that will get created in America between these companies that come together and the companies that don't. And I think that the ones that come together have a chance of having more empathy in the end because there are moments where you can actually get to know the people
[01:17:03] you're working with every day. And I think that that gives you margin for error because everybody sometimes is a little, you know, dealing with their own things in their lives, sometimes can be a little rude, so and we all have tolerances. Those tolerances are higher when you spend time with people and they're much, much lower when you're just in a Zoom. So, I'm, you know, I I'd love to believe that everybody's
[01:17:24] going to be Airbnbing in a castle, in a tent, in a [ __ ] treehouse, but I'm just not sure that that's realistic to really solve the big problems that America has. Do you believe in the work from home, Antonio? Do you have a strong feeling one way or the other? Um, I I'm more inclined to ask than not, but I will say we have some great companies that are fully remote. Um, we have a company called Coalition example in cybersecurity that's fully
[01:17:47] remote run by a wonderful CEO who's under the age of 35 and he's found a way to make it work and I have learned a lot from him. And so, I'm trying to be very open algorithm about this and I think there are people who can make it work, people who can make it work. I can't make it work. I want my people in the office. We invest in pharma. Um, we invest in biotech and we have some biotech companies that have made it
[01:18:05] work uh remotely and some that insist on bringing back people back. If you're in a lab, obviously you have to be back, but it it I think there'll be a mixed environment. And I also think there's an interesting retooling going on in productivity. I think the productivity numbers in American that we're seeing today are wrong because they're not capturing what's happening underneath the technology because these remote
[01:18:21] environments. So, I I don't know yet. I think it's going to depend on the CEO and how good people are and the type of industry you're in. Yeah, I'm I'm keeping an open mind towards it. I know that for investing it was so much more efficient, you know, people could do 20-minute Zooms instead of 2-hour meetings. I mean, think of the problem that that created. Look at the overhang when you could raise tens of billions of dollars
[01:18:42] over Zoom. That turned out to not be a good thing. Well, and but also if you're a capital allocator, being able to meet with three times as many people, you could find more companies. This is my point. So, I I talked to a friend of mine who raised billions of dollars over the last couple years cycle, and he said, &quot;I was able to raise $50 million checks in 30-minute meetings. Now I'm spending 5 hours for a $10 million check.&quot;
[01:19:04] And my reaction to him in the back of my mind was, &quot;That's probably how it should be.&quot; Well, part of that's the liquidity cycle that you're talking system a little bit healthier. Yeah, I mean we raised 1.7 billion our fund during COVID, and it was all done during Zoom. We're raising a new fund now, and we're flying around the world taking meetings. But part of that's just because people are coming back to the
[01:19:20] office, and the liquidity cycle's gotten is reversed on us now, right? So, the denominator's gotten it's gotten harder to get capital. But for sure, I think I agree with Chamath here, like being able to allocate $10 million in a venture fund in 2 years over Zoom, and and think that's on just the metrics and not seeing people, I think that's a bad idea. Yeah, I'm talking about 250k, 500k checks. Might be okay. Take another
[01:19:40] question here. My name is Kenneth Brown III, and my favorite bestie is Jay Clouse, the charisma's legendary. He's my favorite bestie, too, by the way. Don't be offended. And then my question is, what advice would you give to non-technical people trying to fit into the tech-oriented startup venture world? I'm an econ major, but this just seems exciting. Like, how do I become a part of it? Chamath, you have thoughts?
[01:20:07] And I I think that the the best way to do this is to find a company you think is great and get a job. That's a reality. I mean, I would just I would associate myself with a business that I really respect or respect. And if the job is in the mailroom, or the job is the job is the janitor, whatever, just figure it out because what happens with high-growth companies is they need good people. And you'll be surprised how
[01:20:27] much being the first person in and the last person to leave, if there's an office, and doing the work that people ask you to do with a smile and a great attitude. Like those people, they move up fast. So, I would just find a way in, man. Wherever it is, however it is, make it happen and start moving up. I can't I You By the way, you're you're you're you're not you're not non-technical. You're not yet technical.
[01:20:48] And I think that's the opportunity that sits in front of everyone that you can become technical. I had a my fam- a cousin who was a music major at UCLA, worked in music. And then he came back from COVID and he started learning how to program online, taught himself, spent 6 months in his parents' basement teaching himself how to retool his life, and got some contract jobs on Reddit and boards and other stuff, and he got this amazing
[01:21:14] full-time job offer a few weeks ago. And it was really amazing that I got to watch him transform himself and his life over the last year and a half just by taking that on himself, and he became technical. It wasn't that he had a non-technical degree, it's that he just wasn't yet technical. And I think everyone has that opportunity. I'll tell you I'll tell you a great quick story. He's a minority guy, grew up in Houston.