[00:37:55] performative stuff and their network and nonsense and who you are and where you came from. None of it matters. Build a world-class product that two or three people are obsessed with and you'll get the seed check. Focus. Yeah, I think Brad If Brad Gerstner had uh sorry to interrupt your applause, Jay Cal. I know that's important to you. Um I'll take what little I can get. So, I think Brad Gerstner made a really
[00:38:21] important point on this, which is the new normal is going to look like the old normal, meaning the pre-COVID normal. We had the the the abnormal period was this 2-year COVID period where 10 trillion liquidity is pumped into the system. Things are going back to what they looked like before all that happened, and maybe before the Fed started with this zero-interest-rate policy. So, we're actually getting back to normal.
[00:38:44] Understand that the the environment we're entering now is is the normality. The abnormal period was the inflation we saw in assets over the past couple of years. That's the like reset that everyone's going to have to like wrap their heads around. So, Sach, you're my boy. Finally. Finally. One percent. I I I I I think there may be some preference falsi- falsification around this because people don't want to admit
[00:39:08] they're conservative. All the polling All the polling shows this. So, but anyway, thank you, sir. And your second favorite bestie is Tucker. Go. Uh for early-stage SaaS investors, which most of you are, in an increasingly digital world where there are large SaaS solutions for nearly everything, how do you think about selecting companies and founders in the early stage that are coming to market with a small amount of
[00:39:33] utility, and how do you think about they compete with companies with already-established customer distribution? Yeah, so I think you know, one of the things that I really like about SaaS, which is you know, software as a service, basically B2B software. It's business software, okay, that's sold as as a subscription, is that the world's never going to run out of new ideas for business software. Business keeps changing, so therefore, the software
[00:39:56] that businesses need will keep changing, and there will always be an opportunity there for new companies, new verticals, new new niches. There'll always be um you know, new new ideas. And so, I'm never worried about running out in terms of how we evaluate the actual idea, you know, uh we've actually been super transparent around the metrics that we need to see. It really does start with um a company hitting the metrics hurdle
[00:40:23] that we need to see for for example a series A. Um you know, it's a call it you're roughly more or less a million dollars of ARR. You want to be growing 15% month over month, certain net dollar retention, certain capital efficiency. We've all We've published it, you know, on our website and our blog. So, um it's it starts with that and then once we know that like our thresholds have been hit, then we get into more
[00:40:47] qualitative or subjective factors like, you know, what do we think about this founder in this market? Um but one thing I like about it is just it's uh it's very well defined like what we're looking for. And so, you know, just go to our blog, you'll see. We'll tell you exactly. There's no mystery to it. of productivity tools though, uh there's not a single company that can stay in one category and become really big. What
[00:41:11] does that mean? Um there's not a single public company that doesn't have now an entire strategy that says we sell at SMB, mid-market, and enterprise. And so, the thing for SaaS businesses, unless you're like a really powerful productivity tool like a Slack or an Atlassian, your valuation capped in the mid-to-high single-digit billions as as it currently stands today. That's just the law of the math in the public markets on how you're
[00:41:36] rewarded. The high view go out of it, you have to embrace a strategy that actually does more where you become a system of record. So, good example is like a Zendesk. They hit an upper bound. You know, there are many of these examples. And so, if you're building a SaaS business or you're investing in a SaaS business, the other thing to think about is in the absence of being a productivity tool, of which again there are few,
[00:41:58] um everything else has to find a way of being applicable to larger bodies over time in order to maintain valuation. We're going to try and move faster so we can get more people. question Hi there, guys. Uh favorite besties, probably four-way tie, but maybe Chamath edges out just a bit. yeah. Okay. Um it's not a tie. Tie goes to Chamath. Quick question. Tie is right. So, um you know, you guys have done incredibly
[00:42:25] well. So, what what would you do if you're dropped in the middle of, say, Kansas, take away the resource, take away the network, and take you back to age 25, what would you do and why? Antonio, take it. I'm actually from Michigan. I got dropped in the middle of there with no resources and not a lot to do. Uh and I wasn't 25, I was in my early 20s. Um I would I would find a way to make it work, man. You should get You should actually,
[00:42:51] whatever skill you want to start at, whatever job you have, I would try and start a little company. There's always people in They listen to place the grams in Michigan, man. You could cut grass. I had a little computer company when I was 12 years old doing like networking for people in the in the old days. I mean, there's always something you can do if you have a valuable skill. Build a skill, start a company, and just get
[00:43:07] started. Start moving. And make good decisions along the way. One good decision compounds on top of the other, and all four of these guys, what they have done in their careers is make very good decisions, and they've kept moving when they've had problems. And you start early. Yeah, you got to start early. And I I They start early. They may I just want to tell you this, they may look like super successful guys now, and they are,
[00:43:26] but it wasn't easy, and it wasn't linear. They've all had ups and downs, they've all had problems, and they all and they also do what they what they do, and I have great respect for all four of them. I know them all well. They keep making good decisions, they're highly resilient, and they just keep going. And I would tell you to do the same thing. You got to just The only thing I'd add to that is to keep is to keep
[00:43:46] learning. getting I'm getting some applause from you. Oh, YEAH, YEAH, GO. I HAVEN'T HAD ANY, MAN. I HAVEN'T HAD ANY. I JUST GOT HERE. Um but I would just say keep learning as well. Like one one of the biggest advantages I've had in my career is that I try to always learn as new stuff as as often as I can, and whenever I find an area of interest, I pursue it in terms of deepening my understanding of it and and that's
[00:44:09] always created opportunities for me that I wouldn't have just stumbled across or walked my way into. It's such a great opportunity to have you here Antonio when I asked you to do this, you had never been on a podcast before. Have you never done this kind of thing? I've never done this kind of thing and um no. It's awesome. Thanks. I'm only doing it because it's a four of you and I am usually very private but
[00:44:26] I'm enjoying it so yeah. voice. You know It's like very light, very NPR. It's like great public radio. Yeah, it's like hey everybody, you're listening to the politician and culture. I'm Antonio Gracias. People tell me I have a voice for radio and pornography. Yeah. It works pretty well. Go. Hey guys, I'm Samantha favorite bestie is Friedberg. Um I run the factory automation team for a large semiconductor manufacturer in the United
[00:44:55] States. Um really unimpressed with the innovation in industrial automation and so I'm really interested to hear your thoughts on where you see the next disruptions in automation um and also maybe a question for Antonio, where do you see uh the disruptors specifically in how we get not only the technology but the economies of scale uh for these really capital intensive businesses in the US. This is your guy to answer this.
[00:45:21] Yeah. For sure. And and by the way, you should talk about uh automation at I don't know if you want to but that's a Tesla, yeah. Yeah, I mean we we we know a lot of automation. One of my partners is like a genius engineer in this area and you're particularly in the chip business you said, right? Yeah. So, you know, TSMC basically took the many this idea of outsourcing manufacturing assets that Intel did with
[00:45:38] TSMC in the beginning it created that business and moved most of our high technology in in chips off and offshore into Taiwan. It was like a terrible idea. And we do I think it we as I said earlier in the industrial policy in this country, I think we need industrial policy to bring chip manufacturing back. It's very important. And the problem you have in automation and chip manufacturing particularly is you know, when you think about where all
[00:45:58] the great engineers go today, they're going to automation. They're not going there because they're competing at TSMC. So, you have a you have a couple of Intel fabs down in the US, but we have to have some I think actually it's going to require industrial policy to force people like Intel, AMD to want to bring stuff back into the US and to really get great talent to want to do it. Do you think there's opportunities outside of
[00:46:17] greenfield models to kind of reinvigorate and unlock the capacity that we have in some of our older manufacturing here in the US? Yes, I do. I I I look I we at Tesla took over the free this Fremont factory was a former GM Toyota factory and you know we retooled it it was look we it would have been we had to do it cuz we didn't have any money and it was free basically. Um but if you if you took that approach and
[00:46:40] you got the you got really great entrepreneurs to focus on this problem through an industrial policy they need money to do it. I think you'd get great innovation. Look Nvidia is actually here in the US. This is the reality this is a great chip company uh and the fabs they use are spread all over the world but that if you gave Nvidia a fab or two who knows what happens if it was the right price. Yeah, Jensen's a great CEO.
[00:47:01] Do you want to go outside? Favorite bestie Jason, you keep uh the ship together. You're the glue that keeps it together. Uh my name is Chris my friend and I started All-in Talk 9 months ago. Uh the fan page for the podcast. It's uh it's really uh Obviously I was I was at the outdoor mall near my house and my dog attacked another dog and the guy was like it's okay I saw you on TikTok and I was like dude I'm not
[00:47:26] so that was cuz of you. But that was for your channel? That was for his Kin channel. It wasn't your channel that was So my question is in the 22 2022 predictions uh episode Chamath you talk about uh All-in media idea and starting an All-in media channel maybe and I wonder if you guys have talked about that anymore your your goals for the future on that cuz I'm pretty sure everyone would agree here that if you
[00:47:51] did start one it would do a whole of a lot better than CNN plus. So Well that that may not be a very high bar. a very low bar. Uh I think it's We actually We actually did get together the four of us. We sat in Freeberg's office. What a [ __ ] show. People started yelling. Two people walked out. What's Sachs? Sachs just started to do this at the table. Yeah. I'm definitely a good driver. My god, that's me driving
[00:48:17] the driveway. a productive conversation. It was completely unproductive. Like it was completely unproductive. That was our first and only meeting. But No, but we did take one key step, which is that Freeberg said, &quot;I'm going to get my team to draft the LLC agreement for the four of us.&quot; Which we refused to sign. And but it And now no one signed it. But it's in our But it's in our inbox. So, we're one
[00:48:40] step closer to starting it. But joking aside, I still think that uh it'll become inevitable. And I think the reason is the two people Um the robots, non-humans. that were uh uncomfortable with human interaction. David's Uh David's on Um I'm trying to find the misters. Once Once we do the the recap of this, I think it'll be they'll I think these two are probably the most shocked. That I'll tell you, by the way, my
[00:49:09] observation, I used to go to TED. I went to TED from 2008 till 2019. I stopped going to TED cuz I thought the content went to [ __ ] And it basically got overtaken with like social justice talks. And like it used to start with like tech and interesting ideas about where the world's headed. And like I listened to our speakers this week, the last 2 days, and I'm like, man, like really fantastic content. I'm like, this
[00:49:27] could be the new TED. So, I got really invigorated by that. Like I really thought I felt like that was really missing. And I think And by the way, I think it I think it's conversations people don't really seem to want to have, right? Like And that And those are Well, and let's just say you were not the earliest believer in this was going to get pulled off to I cannot tell you how many times I've considered quitting the pod and not even
[00:49:53] showing up for this event. And I give Jason props publicly for doing a great job pulling this thing off. SO. GOAT. GOAT. HEY GUYS. My name is Sarah and I really love all of you. You got me through a very tough challenging time when I started listening to you. I came here over 16-hour flight from Abu Dhabi. Um so thank you. Wow, that's a long flight. We love you. We love you. I have a comment and a question. The
[00:50:22] comment um and maybe David. Um I have a lot of relatives in Sweden and um when the Ukraine war started, this is uh very amiable, innovative, beautiful people. Um haven't had a war over 150 years and they were putting gas in their car and s- supplying um cans of goods and got really really nervous about what's happening and we're watching closely to see what would be the next step, I think, if the US didn't step in. Um the so there was a lot of
[00:50:55] reality out there um for the US to stay I don't know, like the savior of the world in a certain way or another. Um Finnish people felt the same way, Moldovans. Um so this is a real big reality out in the um Western European world, not just Eastern Europe. So um that's on my comment, so thank you. Uh for the question. And this comes from my husband. Uh if you're sitting on excess liquidity right now and want to invest for a long
[00:51:27] term Sorry. Um Sacks is raising a fund. Wait, wait, what was that? Was that a Was that a transition from World War III to Investment advice? Stock tips? How do Stock tips? Yeah, I want to make money in the market. We want to save That is dynamic range right there. Yeah. Well done. Well done. You want you've gone from two poles. You know I mean you know me. You know the ups and downs of my life. So yes, it is like that. Why don't we just take the
[00:51:57] first part cuz I think it'd be good. So so on Ukraine, you know, I thought it was important to have this debate today where we got both sides of the issue and we got two people who are very passionate on both sides and I tend to agree more with Glenn on it, but but that doesn't mean I don't want to help Ukraine at all. I just think we have to keep a close eye on preventing this thing from escalating into World
[00:52:23] War III. Because the Russians have 6,000 nuclear weapons and their military doctrine says they can use them if they feel that they're existentially threatened. And so, you know, if our objective here is to help the Ukrainians expel the Russians from an invasion, that's one thing, but if our objective if we have mission creep into destabilizing the Russian regime into basically trying to take back Crimea which they see as theirs,
[00:52:54] if we're trying to weaken them to the point where they're no longer a great power, we're really playing with fire there. So we have to be really careful about our objectives there and make sure that we don't let this thing spiral out of control. And Tony, what do you what do you you have thoughts on Ukraine and are we being too dovish or hawkish or doing it just right? So I think we are there's a lot more going on here than the eye meets the eye
[00:53:19] and this question was about Sweden and Finland and here's what I would say cuz I want to focus on that that if our our our friends in particularly Northwestern Europe should actually be arming themselves. And if they arm themselves, we won't have this problem. That's the reality of it. The reason Ukraine yes, that's a reality. The time the time for sitting on the sidelines in Central Europe is over. If you care about your country, care
[00:53:45] about your children, care about your families, then you should arm yourselves. Period, full stop. An American will be here happy to sell you weapons. No problem. What do you do without NATO? I think that's true. The reason Ukrainians are able to defend themselves is because they are they have actually been buying weapons and they bought they built their own weapons with the Turks. That the drones that are being used to destroy the Russian supply
[00:54:04] lines are not coming from America, they're coming from a joint venture with the Turks. This is the reality. So, should we be drawn into a war in Central Europe? No, I think it's World War III. Should we help these folks defend themselves? Yes, I should. And in your particular part of the world, yeah, for sure. Start buying some weapons. One question over here. Yeah. Tough to follow, but my name is Joanna. Favorite bestie?