[00:51:57] first part cuz I think it'd be good. So so on Ukraine, you know, I thought it was important to have this debate today where we got both sides of the issue and we got two people who are very passionate on both sides and I tend to agree more with Glenn on it, but but that doesn't mean I don't want to help Ukraine at all. I just think we have to keep a close eye on preventing this thing from escalating into World
[00:52:23] War III. Because the Russians have 6,000 nuclear weapons and their military doctrine says they can use them if they feel that they're existentially threatened. And so, you know, if our objective here is to help the Ukrainians expel the Russians from an invasion, that's one thing, but if our objective if we have mission creep into destabilizing the Russian regime into basically trying to take back Crimea which they see as theirs,
[00:52:54] if we're trying to weaken them to the point where they're no longer a great power, we're really playing with fire there. So we have to be really careful about our objectives there and make sure that we don't let this thing spiral out of control. And Tony, what do you what do you you have thoughts on Ukraine and are we being too dovish or hawkish or doing it just right? So I think we are there's a lot more going on here than the eye meets the eye
[00:53:19] and this question was about Sweden and Finland and here's what I would say cuz I want to focus on that that if our our our friends in particularly Northwestern Europe should actually be arming themselves. And if they arm themselves, we won't have this problem. That's the reality of it. The reason Ukraine yes, that's a reality. The time the time for sitting on the sidelines in Central Europe is over. If you care about your country, care
[00:53:45] about your children, care about your families, then you should arm yourselves. Period, full stop. An American will be here happy to sell you weapons. No problem. What do you do without NATO? I think that's true. The reason Ukrainians are able to defend themselves is because they are they have actually been buying weapons and they bought they built their own weapons with the Turks. That the drones that are being used to destroy the Russian supply
[00:54:04] lines are not coming from America, they're coming from a joint venture with the Turks. This is the reality. So, should we be drawn into a war in Central Europe? No, I think it's World War III. Should we help these folks defend themselves? Yes, I should. And in your particular part of the world, yeah, for sure. Start buying some weapons. One question over here. Yeah. Tough to follow, but my name is Joanna. Favorite bestie?
[00:54:24] I think Friedberg. I think you do a good job of being heard and hearing others equally. So, I think that's an important skill. Um trying to work on it myself. Friedberg, wow. In terms of my question, it's a little more qualitative, but some of us were having an interesting discussion about first impressions last night. And I'm curious to think one in terms of your own first impressions, how has your the way that you introduce
[00:54:49] yourself to others changed as you've grown? And what have you learned about that? And on the other end, what are some of the most notable first impressions others have made on you and why have those stood out to you? It's an interesting question. Well, seeing as only two of us have emotions, maybe we can Yeah, we can talk it out. Sure. I'm going to go to the bathroom. You won't find any emotions there. Turn the mic off, please. The quinoa. Oh
[00:55:23] my god. Well, that baba ghanoush goes right through you. Continue. Baba ghanoush. I think that when I was younger, um I was more insecure, so I had to wear what few labels I had on my sleeve and use them as a weapon before others could use their labels on me. I honestly felt that way. You know, and in Silicon Valley at the time, you know, it really there is a very monocultural aspect of, you know, folks from a few schools, you know,
[00:55:55] folks having worked at a few companies. Um and I had neither, you know, I worked I went to Waterloo, which is in Canada, and I worked at AOL. So, I didn't go to Stanford and I didn't work at Google. Um or Yahoo. And there was a there was a great lineage and of of where, you know, the really credentialed credible folks came from. And so, you do you do what any insecure person does. You kind of throw what few things you have out there very quickly,
[00:56:22] you know, trying to one-up the person in front of you. And that's calmed down a lot. So, that's probably the biggest thing that's changed. has and I mean I think it's a I have a similar observation. I when I was taking that R train into Manhattan, I used to say to myself, Jason Calacanis, editor-in-chief. Jason Calacanis, millionaire. And I I was like literally had a 16-page photocopy magazine called Silicon Alley Reporter
[00:56:46] and I was trying to convince myself that someday I would be somebody. And I I think that narrative was important for me and people when I would give them the 16-page photocopy, I'd say, &quot;Here's my magazine.&quot; They'd say, &quot;This is a photocopy.&quot; I'd say, &quot;No, it's a magazine. It's got a picture on the cover.&quot; Cuz for me that was that why it was a magazine. And it eventually became
[00:57:03] a very large magazine in fact. Uh 300 pages. And and today, thank you. Um so, I think there is something about manifesting stuff and just, you know, believing that you're going to get there. But today, I I define myself by um the things I love to do. So, when people do ask me now, &quot;Hey, what do you do?&quot; I say, &quot;I'm a writer and I have a podcast.&quot; And I angel invest. And I don't say it's the number one podcast or
[00:57:27] I'm one of the top angel investor of all time. I just I just just about what I don't say that. And I don't say, you know, like it's the you know, the book is in 11 languages or whatever. I got a million dollar advance. I just There's no ego about it. I just say writer, podcaster, angel. Okay. How did it go in there? Okay, David? You okay? What sort of advance are you getting? A million dollars, he said. A million
[00:57:57] dollar advance. I mean, the book's in 12 languages. No, thank you. If you have one, I'll sign it. Next question. Sometimes Sometimes I think Jason's just pimping out all of us to fuel his media career. Yeah. You think? Sometimes? You think? Hey David, all honesty, how has the deal flow gone since you got this podcast? Let's I think I think it's down 50%. That was the intent. That was the intent. More deal flow coming this way.
[00:58:24] Down 50%. Down 50%. That's since you went on Tucker. Go. Hi. Today, the crypto world is focused on decentralization, speculation, and stores of value. Who here is excited about micro payments? And whoever's most excited, which industries do you think will be most impacted by the newfound ability to send payments in as little as 1/100 of a penny? Great. Oh, favorite bestie, they want Sacks, you want to take this?
[00:58:49] Yeah, go Sacks. Um so, you know, the this question of micro payments has come up all the way since, you know, back to when I was working on PayPal. And one of the problems with micro payments is, as the name suggests, the amounts are very, very small. So, you have to do a lot of them to create enough volume for them to be meaningful. And so, there was always sort of this market size problem. Now, for crypto,
[00:59:12] there may be more of an opportunity there because um the way that the old credit card rails network works is there's like a 25 cent charge per transaction. And so, like at PayPal, it just didn't make sense to facilitate micro payments because the cost of that transaction always exceeded the fee that we could get. So, you're right that or I think what you're suggesting with your question is that there is sort of a
[00:59:36] crypto opportunity to do this in a different way cuz you can basically do a costless instantaneous transfer using a blockchain based currency. So, I'm sure someone's going to do something interesting with that and then the question is just how like what does that aggregate into? Is it is it going to be big enough By the way, there's an there's an interim step which is also pretty obvious at least to me which is this
[00:59:59] idea that, you know, for example, like if Stripe actually took the time to embrace one of these stable coins, there's no reason why Stripe needs to actually run on other chains as well cuz like you can just basically swap that dollar in a ledger into USDC. Let's just pick that as an example, not Tether, not to tilt you. Um run on those rails for free and then basically transfer back. And it's it's not it's not obvious why people don't
[01:00:23] And you need the gas cost to come down. So, you know, like you're running a transaction on Ethereum or certainly Bitcoin is very expensive right now. Yeah, yeah, you need you need like a chain like a Solana or something like that. Something that's like super cheap. And the the cognitive load of the transaction, just the person deciding do they want to pay a tenth of a penny a penny, is sometimes greater than the
[01:00:46] actual value of the money which then creates almost like friction to them wanting to read the article. Let's take another question. Hi, my name is Kate and my favorite bestie right now is Friedberg who often plays devil's advocate and so forces a step wise conversation. Woo! Friedberg! My lord! So, how many people did you pay off? Go ahead. So, that we all admire your successes, but we've also been hearing from Mar for
[01:01:17] instance that we need to be comfortable with failure and we need to become resilient. So, when you look back on your careers thus far, what have been the toughest moments, the moments when you've made a mistake that have taught you a lot? I mean, I had I had two huge ones. Well, and Antonio must have some, too. Yeah. Mistakes. My mistakes. That you learn the most from. Man, um my biggest mistakes in life have been
[01:01:43] about people. And I have uh over the years um made errors in in judging people and how honest they were and how good they were. And as I look back on that, it's because I have a a weakness for ideas that are great. And sometimes those come with great people, and sometimes they don't. The reality is there are some bad people out there who are acting really great and doing interesting things. And we have um we've suffered from that. I
[01:02:08] mean, I know David and I were at I suffered from that. And it happens. So, I I would be I've learned a lot about that. I've gone deep into neuroscience. Actually have a stat We have a woman who's got a PhD in the neuroscience of emotion at Caltech now on staff that helps us uh learn, as you said, always learning, about how to assess people and how to assess their emotional states. That's the most important thing I I
[01:02:32] think we've updated in our process and in my own thinking. So, you love the idea so much that you ignored other data. You ignored the other data that this person was not honorable, truthful. No, I mean, so there are times when uh there are two kinds of of this errors here. One type of error is we just didn't see it because the person was so good at being bad. They are you know, one of the things a neuroscientist taught us is
[01:02:56] that about 5% of the human population has a brain anomaly that make them actual psychopaths, defined as the the medial isn't firing properly when they do something bad, guilt, fear, etc. And in our particular industry department, we're like 10%. So, we raised our base rate forecast to 10%, and it's gotten better, but there's some people who are so good at it you just can't see it. I mean, Theranos, Elizabeth Holmes, okay,
[01:03:14] like lots of smart people put money in that company. We didn't, but it was it wasn't obvious to them obviously. Then there are then there are moments earlier on when you had yellow flags you overrode because you were so emotionally committed to the idea that we want we had a business we did was in the dental space. It was it was Medicaid dental clinics for kids that were black and Hispanic. And I'm you know, I'm from
[01:03:32] that demographic and I wanted to make that great. And in reality we overrode yellow lights because we wanted to make it great and we failed. Chamath, you were going to add some of your failures? I I had two huge failures, but they were they were more personal moments of learning for me. One was you know, we were in the midst of building a phone and it didn't come to pass and if I really think about what I thought the problem was this was when I
[01:03:52] was at Facebook. What the problem then versus now? Then, you know, I would have said oh Zuck and I had a huge kind of you know, thing and blah blah blah. Now what I would have said is, you know, I didn't really understand my own limitations and what I was really asking of him and the board in that moment. And then the second is there were all these moments that were people decisions um at Social Capital that ultimately
[01:04:17] manifested in sub quality financial and investment decisions. And had I had it to do over again, I would not have ignored some of the red flags because I was so desirous to be in the game, to you know, be in it that uh I probably, you know, looked the other way a little bit on folks that, you know, I'll just give you the the practical example. I remember in a $300 million fund I put 25 or 30 million dollars into Bitcoin at
[01:04:49] 50 bucks a coin. And when the thing went to like 150 or something, just the pressure to distribute was so high. And I had conviction, I had all of these things, I had all the voting control, I had everything to just say, &quot;No.&quot; And I didn't have the courage to understand my role as a leader versus something you know, my job as a investment partner. Um And so you learn, you know, you learn what you're good at, you learn
[01:05:21] where your strengths are, and you try to just get better. Try to fix those weaknesses. I mean, at the end of the day, what we're both saying is the same thing, which is ultimately it has nothing to do with anybody else. It still comes back to you and what your skill set is in your toolbox and whether you're upgrading your toolbox every day. Friedberg, Sachs, any mistakes that you're able to access through your CPUs?
[01:05:43] In your long-term storage? Well, I think as you get older, you learn how to pick your battles better. And you just have to decide like what are the occasions that are really worth fighting for and which aren't, you know? And sometimes you just let it go and others you have to fight. And and just knowing when you should choose which path, I think is really important. When you were younger, the guy you really want behind you in a battle is
[01:06:04] this guy. So. Phenomenal investor. Back when I was on the founder side of the table. So. Good brawler. Yeah, for sure. That's why I got him a samurai sword for his birthday. He did. Yes, I did. What did you get for his birthday? A samurai sword. The collection of samurai swords in my apartment started with David Sachs's samurai sword. Ah, very nice, very nice. Thank you, David. Very sharp, too. Don't let your kids try to play with it
[01:06:27] or something. It was not a toy. Yes. Not a toy. Friedberg, anything in that long-term storage tape drives of a I don't know. I've made a lot of mistakes. Um it's really hard. I I'm very hard on myself. Um When I was young, I always said there's no limit. And I always believed that. And when I hit walls in my life, it was very um very difficult because it it totally countered what I what I felt was possible. I always thought everything
[01:07:02] was going to be a success. I was there's no way I'm going to let anything [ __ ] fail. There's no way I'm going to let anything not work. My voice is cracking not cuz I'm crying because I'm losing my voice. So, um We know it's It's all we need. If you cry now, everybody's going to be crying. Now it's all free perks. My It's all for the vote. It's all for the vote. He actually does have emotions, see? But I I would say um He's smart and
[01:07:26] kind. Yeah. And a vegan. Yeah. He's perfect. The biggest mistake I made He's my dream boyfriend. Maybe coming on the stage was the biggest mistake I made. You're drowning in the pot. Oh, man. But I think Antonio's point is right. You know, you just have to be willing to to learn and and evolve. It's uh you know, I I now know that my life isn't about everything I do has to work 100% of the time. Um and being so hard on myself caused a
[01:07:57] lot of like emotional challenges for me over time. But getting getting to this point where I can now be much more calculated um and just move forward quickly and learn from it has been a big evolution for me. That's just a general statement, but yeah. Yeah, I and I would Oh, sorry, Jason. Well, no, it's okay. I just I would say I I was thinking about it while these guys were being so candid and I was immediately going to punt and
[01:08:18] go to the next question, but I thought that would be unfair. Um you know, what? I think two things. One, I think a lot of my decision-making early on was out of fear, fear of losing whatever I had gained up until that point. So, although I was a risk-taker and I was being bold in one way, I was also throttling myself because I was just so scared that I would lose whatever gains I had. And it it made me an imperfect manager of