[00:00:00] No text Secretary Bessant, it's uh wonderful to see you. Before we maybe deep dive into AI, do you want to give us um the highlevel update on the 333 plan? How are things going? Um you you had an incredible clip, by the way, with Maria Bardomo where you talked about some of the things that were happening economically. Maybe just level set everybody on what's going on. So just just for good framing during the campaign IDA 333 plan I think his microphone's off. Can we get the microphone on for Scott? Test test
[00:00:33] test. There it is. Okay, good. So I had a plan that I I called 333. And the idea was to get the budget deficit, which was running about 6.7% of GDP under the Biden administration, high highest that we'd ever had when we weren't at war or in a recession down to 3% uh 3 plus% economic growth on a persistent basis and to create 3 million more barrels of energy equivalent. So oil and gas um before President Trump
[00:01:10] leaves office and look we're full speed ahead. Uh we had the first June was the first positive June for the Treasury since 2015. We actually had a surplus and we we did that in a good way. We took took in more revenues, some from tariffs, and we brought down spending. And when when I think about what we can do here that what I'm really excited about is the idea uh you know with AI that we can go back to the paradigm
[00:01:50] when I I was younger in the '9s. Allan Greenspan was able to run the economy very hot in the 90s and because of you know it was the IT boom and we had this very uh powerful non-inflationary growth and I think that there that it's highly likely we could have that now and so that kind of growth would bring down the deficit very quickly. you uh there's been a lot of talk today about the amount of capex spending that needs to go into AI and all of the jobs
[00:02:29] that it creates and you uh posted as well actually a couple days ago and you talked about that there's just been an inflection point that you've seen in capex spending sort of as a steward of the US economy. Can you tell us about what what's happening? So it it's com combination and it's a barbells. So, uh, I I've been in Pittsburgh twice in the past four weeks. Four weeks ago, I went with President Trump when he announced the US Steel Nippon Steel deal, substantial
[00:02:59] investment by Nippon Steel into an old very important industry. And then last week on Tuesday, there there was an A AI summit in in Pittsburgh, all the big players. And Pit Pixsburg is a natural location uh for AI. Uh lot lots of cheap energy. Carnegie Melon Pit uh are there. And so it was very interesting to see the juxiposition there. But we are seeing uh this incredible capex. The hyperscalers are have obviously been in an arms race kind of you know the big
[00:03:39] five the big seven. We estimate that that is approximately 1% of GDP a year. Wow. So $300 billion. Wow. That's being spent on AI. And in my perfect world, which never happens, uh, we would go through this big capex boom and then sometime in 26, the capex boom would hand off to a productivity boom. M I mean it's an incredible thing because it's sort of you mentioned alluded to this a little bit earlier but it does
[00:04:12] violate a lot of economic theory in the sense that it just hasn't had the negative pernicious effects. Do you think is that is that a yet thing or do you think that we're in a structurally different kind of economy now? You mean the AI boom? Yeah. Well look we we've seen uh throughout history that technology can can drive these things. If you go back, I'll talk about the ones I was around for. I was not around for the railroads, but eight
[00:04:43] 18, but I I used to teach economic history. 1880s, 1890s, the the railroads made it 10 times faster to cross the United States. We had this incredible productivity boom. It was the gi gigantic GDP growth and it was disinflationary. So imagine you're having doubledigit GDP numbers and inflation was -2 -3 -4% just cuz the costs were coming down. Then in the 1980s uh under Reagan we had what I would call a deregulatory
[00:05:23] boom because hard for anyone everyone in this room to remember but everything used to be regulated. you know, price of airline tickets, the uh te telephone bills, uh banking services. So, uh 1980s we had a deregulatory boom, you know, Paul Vulkar brought down inflation, but it was also the deregulation. 1990s which I previously mentioned we had had a electronic buildup and then finally it kicked in especially in office work um
[00:06:01] and that led to a big productivity boom and we paid down paid down the national debt right you know I mean had a surplus we we had a we we had a surplus and I mean it it seems crazy I found a paper the other a that people were wondering, well, what are we going to do if there aren't any government bonds? But we didn't have the But we fixed that. There are plenty of government bonds. But I I I do think there's a chance now that we could have
[00:06:31] this growth acceleration and I if I'm shooting for 3%, but I I can tell you the trajectory of the debt path really changes. And if we can also uh have lower interest rates because it's non-inflationary and I I I think the Fed's going to have to be open to this idea. So let me ask two questions on that. The first is at that the examples you gave we didn't have some of the tariff that since we last talked several of these trade deals have been negotiated out
[00:07:04] further. You have better clarity probably on what the tariff rates are going to be. what do you estimate the dampening effects on the growth rate to be if any associated with the tariffs in those trade deals and uh second is love to hear your point of view on the Chinese report of s selling half of their US treasuries and where's the market for treasuries going to kind of fall over time here so two parts uh so um
[00:07:29] to address the interest rate yeah so I I think that um in terms of the well I I'll I'll take the second one first. Uh we we expect that that the Chinese will slowly divest, but that with the passage of the genius legislation last week, I I think that we could see several trillion dollars of demand for T bills because the way the legislation works, it it's under 90 days. And I I think that that's really going to lock in the US dollar in
[00:08:09] terms of uh you know individuals on the street in whether you know it's it's Nigeria qual are are going to be using stable USbacked stable coins and if I think about the alternative um you know if you think about a central bank digital currency China Euro or ECB or even Canada. You know, a lot of you will remember during COVID, the Canadian government, they didn't like what some truckers were doing and they seized and froze their bank
[00:08:46] account. So, with a central bank digital currency, you could put out a mean tweet. Not that any of you are, but if if you put out a mean, no one up here is known for doing that ever. uh uh that if you have a government backed then they they can shut you down as opposed to this kind of unbridled uh choice that consumers are going to have for US dollar stable coins. And on the first question about growth rates being hampered by tariffs, is is the revenue you're seeing offsetting
[00:09:23] effectively the rates? We we we haven't seen that yet. And I I think there's a good chance that we could see. So if we think about China, so chi China's are you China has a high tariff rate. It's 30%. The Chinese business model is like the the brooms and the water buckets from Fantasia. They they just keep they they just keep going. And it's an it's an employment agency. I'm thinking of the song. I know the the
[00:09:54] piece. Yeah. A and it's an employment a so they they will just keep cutting costs to uh maintain market share. So so we haven't seen that thus far and a lot of the other foreign producers have cut cut price to maintain market share. A lot of the US companies have eaten into their margins to maintain market share. And then but the other thing we're seeing is the tariffs are creating the onshoring. So you might have seen can't remember whether it was yesterday the day before
[00:10:34] Astroenica said that they were going to build 50 billion 50 billion incredible plant here. So we're seeing this this big onshoring move that I think can accelerate all that. So yeah, I I think there's a very good chance that we see just like with AI, we're seeing now we're in the construction boom phase, then we're going to be in the use case, right? I I think we could have this massive construction boom and then the factories get populated.
[00:11:09] And part of the President Trump's one big beautiful bill, the most powerful part of that is the 100% immediate expensing, right, of equipment, and we also did it for factories. So, not only are we trying to make the US the the best destination regulatorywise, we're also making it tax-wise. So, you you can immediately write off all the equipment for the next 5 years. You're going to be able to write off the factory structure and I I saw
[00:11:45] Secretaries Bergamman right and we're going to have cheap energy. Yeah. Which seems like a pretty good combination. Should the Fed remain independent? Sorry, the Fed, should it remain independent? Should uh Trump replace the Fed chair? You know, you guys seem a bit frustrated with him. Uh what are your thoughts there? Because you guys have done such a good job in terms of the confidence in the markets. CPI went up a little bit in June and it does seem like the economy
[00:12:13] is very strong and people are very confident. So then poly market is showing no rate cut is the most likely case in September. So how do you think about the Fed? Well, I I think if you if you look that the Fed publishes something called the summary of economic projections and it's it's pretty politically biased. Uh but we're we're seeing that we could see one two rate cuts this year and I think that once we see o over the next one two months that
[00:12:46] the tariffs haven't been inflationary and you I I have breakfast with chair Powell almost every week and you know I just keep saying that a one-time price level increase is very different than the notion of a persistent inflationary spiral. I think that you uh we used to say TDS was Trump derangement syndrome. I now say TDS is tariff derangement syndrome, right? And when you think about it, the market crashed, then it had the fastest
[00:13:21] recovery in history over a 54-day period. We're back at a new high. So I think the market's looking through all this to next year with the productivity boom. And to to the question, I think minimum on a forward 12-month basis, we're going to take in at least $300 billion in tariff income. Yeah. Are they punishing you in a way for maybe the roll out of the tariffs was uh a little bit shock and awe or a little bit uh effervescent, however you want to describe it. It was pretty
[00:13:56] intense. Is the Fed sort of punishing you for that in your mind? Uh, no. I I think that they're they're just stuck in in an old way of thinking. How much should they cut? What should they How should they think? Uh, look, I'm only going to talk about the mistakes they made, not the mistakes they're going to make. Um, but the the I I I I do think at a at a point they're just going to have to kind of admit that
[00:14:24] they have have been wrong because if if you think about it, I don't believe that a tariff is a consumption tax. Right. Right. But if tomorrow we put on a 1% consumption tax, you would never say that's 1% inflation. That's right. Right. So I I am I am hoping that in their infinite wisdom that the I can't remember it's 350 PhD economists which I I said on TV it was either yesterday or the day before. My worry is that the Fed is turning into
[00:15:01] universal basic income for PhD economist. Right? That I I don't I don't know what they do. They're never right. If you if you were to maybe you should double the number of PhDs if you go to 700 they might get it right. Well, well, look, I I mean, if you were to look at the central value tendency ver versus how they've done it, it's shocking. It's shocking. I said like if air traffic controllers had did this, no one would get in an airplane.
[00:15:28] They do seem to put a little tail on everything. Last the last question maybe as we wrap this up. Secretary as a economic historian maybe just very briefly tell us the lessons of these previous economic expansions technological booms what we need to learn from those things whether it was railroads or whether it was the agrarian revolution or the industrial revolution so that we don't screw up the AI revolution what are the few critical things we need to do right well I I think the most important thing
[00:15:57] that that we are doing is getting out of the way and setting the the conditions for it because I I would say one of the surprises that I I've had and I've had a lot of them when I went from civilian to a public servant has been that in the US we've made it so hard to build things. Right. Right. And it's just very frustrating. I'm I'm sure Doug Doug and Chris will talk about it, but this idea TSMC wants to build a gigantic fab
[00:16:36] system in Arizona and I I think it might be able to prod produce up to 7% of the chips that the United States needs. and they're dealing with local building inspectors who said and you know evidently like the these chip design plants are moving so quickly. You know you you're constantly calling an audible and you're saying well like 3 months ago it looked like this but in 18 months we've now decided it needs to look like this. And you you've got
[00:17:10] someone saying well you said the pipe was going to be there not there. we're shutting you down. So, a and you know just the level of permitting we always talk about how I I think I may have even talked about it on your podcast how Germany had de-industrialized, right? We even made the decision to de-industrialize through our environmental regulations. And I think the most important thing we can do is make it easy to build things again and uh stay out of the way and not
[00:17:44] No text overregulate. Secretary, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you guys for being here. I know it's been uh a rushed afternoon. We did not expect the uh uh the incredible turnout that we've had, but thank you both. Um, you're the chair and the vice chair of the National Energy Dominance Council. We've talked at length today about the boom underway in AI. Uh, we've talked about this on the podcast. The US energy
[00:18:11] production capacity, electricity production capacity is about a terowatt today, growing to an estimated 2 terowatt by 2040. China's going from 3 to 8. They're adding in America every 18 months. Um, maybe you guys could just give us an update on the National Energy Dominance Council, how that work is going to try and accelerate energy production in the United States to help enable this AI boom. Well, h happy to do that. And I just want to say again, thanks to the all-in
[00:18:36] for pulling together this amazing uh team and Hillen Valley. Yes. And Hillen Valley, too. Thanks, Christian. uh we uh when when we look back on this day when historians look back on uh the the the challenge of our times which is like the summit called winning the AI arms race I think one of the things they're going to dis conclude is that the reason why the United States won the AI arms race was because of President Trump and and I'm not saying
[00:19:01] that as a political statement. I'm saying that the policy of the Trump administration is more energy fast and an understanding of how important it is uh for the AI arms race. And so with that, as you've just outlined, we've got a huge challenge ahead of us. Uh you know, China uh is deploying everything. I mean, they added 94 gawatts of coal last year. 1 gawatt's Denver. Uh they're 60 over 60% of their power is still coming from coal. They're just pouring uh pouring that on. The Wall Street
[00:19:29] Journal ran an article yesterday talking about what a great job that China was doing with EVs and with solar. I read the whole article. They never mentioned coal. It's twothirds of their electrical power. And and so then just by definition, I mean twothirds of the the EV cars in China should have a bumper sticker that says powered by coal. Uh so they are this is a we're in a race of our lifetime. They're also doing nuclear. They're doing hydro. They've
[00:19:54] got no permitting issues. I mean they build a hydro dam. It'd be like the equivalent of us putting a dam on the Grand Canyon what they were doing on the Yang Sea. So we've got real competition. We can lead in technology but we haven't been leading on electric production. So, the National Energy Dominance Council, part of the job that Chris and I have is helping through cut red tape, uh, produce more electricity, whether it's hydro, geothermal, nuclear, uh, and and and, and of course, LG, natural gas is a
[00:20:20] key part of this. And then bringing back coal and making sure that we stop shutting down base load in America, uh, has been a key part of what we're doing. Yeah. And he's just to riff off that where United States gets electricity today in order natural gas by far then nuclear then coal those three sources are 75% of US electricity and 90% of what matters which is electricity that's there whether the sun's shining or the wind is blowing. Um but we had in the