[00:45:53] journalists already. And the fact that they won't divest from it, I think, tells you everything you need to know. They see this as a critical weapon against the United States. Where what do you think? What does the administration think? Well, the the president is reasonably positive about Tik Tok provided it goes into American hands and it's controlled by American technology. Right. I think that's his view is that they've got to be out of it. It's got to be on an American technology stack and it's got
[00:46:20] to be owned by Americans, period. And then how we work it on through there. Uh we'll figure it out. Right now it it's sort of in that uh straddling the line. Yeah. You're sort of staring at each other, but eventually that'll get sorted out. I I think that deal will happen and uh America will buy Tik Tok because the alternative is just shuts it off and that just seems illogical. Can I go back to the above the line,
[00:46:44] below the line? Love that. Love that saying by the way. Um how do you think about the and you talked about the chips. How do you think about these export controls to various countries in various regions? What's your risk calculus about where those things should be? And and if I could just actually add a question that builds on top of that. You've talked about creating AI economic zones where trusted partners could get preferential access for American technology. So could you describe a little bit what your vision
[00:47:14] is for that? I think what we're wrestling with and this is we're really discussing literally the intellectual wrestle we're going through now is is the idea that we are comfortable with allies buying significant numbers of chips right and having a large cluster provided that cluster is uh operated by an American a trusted American operator and the cloud is a trusted American operator so that we know that giant cluster is surrounded by us.
[00:47:45] Right. Right. As you go down from there, right? That's where we go. Okay. If they want a smaller cluster, would you expand the number of people who are trusted, right? And the answer would be probably yes, right? And then when you go down from there to a smaller and smaller cluster, right? How do you deal with that? So I think it's cluster size is sort of the a way of thinking rather than saying uh you know because I went to Poland and I was in I was in Poland on a on a mission for the for the
[00:48:17] government and the prime minister of Poland chases me down and says what did I do to America to be tier three and I was like I thought you were part of Europe you know like I didn't understand what it could possibly be the issue so I think the answer is ally or not, right? Cluster size and who controls it or not. I think once once you sort of wrestle with those ideas and anybody who has ideas along those lines and you want to
[00:48:45] come and talk to us about it because this is this is really the thinking right now and we're sort of debating that right now. Howard, I just want to say thank you for it's so great to have a sharp negotiator and and such a creative mind representing America. It makes me feel like really great about the 90% carry there. There may be fun. How do we get 90% carry? I love it. Yum. Yum. I love said that you're a New Yorker. Yeah,
[00:49:09] I I am. But the negotiator chief, New York. Uh I grew up on Long Island. My kids have grown in Manhattan, but uh the negotiator chief is Donald Trump. That's nice that he's got you right. He's amazing. Well, thanks for coming. We're going to make uh make some room for the president. He's going to get ready. Howard, thank you for joining us. That was great. Thank you.