[00:31:46] Chris and I and our team inside the White House at the National Energy Dominance Council, you need to come and talk to us because we're mapping out talking to everybody in the industry. We're we're a neutral party, but we're saying here's where the shortages are. We've talked about things like the Defense Production Act. We've talked to companies that are producing turbines. everything we're doing, we say, "Hey,
[00:32:04] you've got to amp up because some of these people are sleeping on the sidelines." And they don't think there's going to be real demand. And we're saying, if anything, the demand is underestimated. So, we're trying to jack up the supply into the supply chain, but please contact us. Uh, we're there. Think of us not we're not a group that writes papers. We're a group that helps people build. We We help people build projects. That's what we do. Can't wait to visit. Just Just build a
[00:32:26] data center, Jake Helen. You'll get an invite. So, AI factory. AI factory. Somebody else can build data center. We got enough data. Secretary Bergen, right, can you as we finish up hit on the point we were talking about a little bit earlier, which is that you take a step back. The focus here upstream on these prioritizations from energy to critical minerals is not just you have a new market obviously on the AI side and there's huge demand and this buildout's important for national security. This buildout is important for winning uh the
[00:32:50] AI race. But the derivative impact is what's most interesting, right? These are thousands of jobs, tens, hundreds of thousands of jobs. And then on any of these manufacturing buildouts, particularly in factories, nuclear uh capabilities, they're going to lead to usually 10x the amount of indirect jobs as well. Back to Chim's point on the supply chain for these things. Can you talk a little about the job impact now
[00:33:07] that we're seeing? And then if we're successful here in this building at capacity, how many jobs are we talking about? How much how much can we actually help the middle class here? Well, it's a fabulous question, Christian, and I'm so bullish on the US economy because as our our friend Scott, who was just on here before us, but I mean, you take the combination of of lower taxes, dramatically lower regulation, accelerated permitting time, just accelerating permitting, uh there could
[00:33:30] be a trillion to a trillion half dollars stuck in this two to fouryear federal government permitting thing. we accelerate that expenditure of capital, the onshoring uh the greatest economic developer in history bringing foreign direct investment back to the United States, President Trump with these tariffs. You know what do we announce in Pittsburgh? It's $15 trillion that's coming back. So with AI, software has always been the one things that extended human capability more than any other in
[00:33:55] our lifetimes. And now with AI, it it's just a massive multiplier of that. But to make the factory happen, we're going to have an explosion in in jobs in the trades. I mean, you're going to be able to skip college, go directly into develop a trade, you know, make 150. Yeah. 150 grand, 120 to start in my home state. Uh, and and again, and for people that are spending money on site selection, I'll tell you one thing. You want to build it faster, go to where the
[00:34:22] stranded gas is, build your power plant there, build the AI factory next to it. You don't have to permit a transmission line. You don't have to permit a pipeline. Those are the two things. Linear infrastructure has been weaponized by the people that are opposed to energy development in this country. They weaponized the blocking of those things. I say pipeline, you say protest. You know, so go to the go to the same place and colllocate. President
[00:34:45] Trump himself has said in speeches, we're going to let you operate off the grid. We can build all this stuff and and and keep rates for electricity for small businesses, consumers down because we've got to add to the supply. But, you know, which if you're going to go to where the gas is, there's sweet places to go. The Marcellus, the Perian, or the Bacan. And uh and you can save tens of millions hiring sight selection guys. Go
[00:35:05] find the people with stranded gas and get going. Great. All right. Well, Secretary Wright, Secretary Bergam, thank you for being with us. That was great. That was great. Well done. Thank you. Really great. Nice to see you, brother. Everything guys to see you. No text Welcome back to doing it. How are you? Nice to see you. Howard, I noticed you had that incredibly smooth, refined tequila at your birthday. How was it? Take us through it every
[00:35:29] 14 minutes. Just let's get let's get to it. Let's get to it. Yeah. Smooth. Yeah. Well, thanks for being gonna kick us off. So, the White House just rolled out a massive deal with Japan, which obviously plays a critical part of the semiconductor supply chain. Could you tell us a little bit about what the nexus is between this new exciting trade deal with Japan and how it fits with our the current debate around winning the
[00:35:53] race on artificial intelligence? So, it was fundamental for Japan to lower their tariff because their car industry and their manufacturing industry is fundamental to their economy. And they paid a $550 billion what the president likes to call a signing bonus. Right. the greatest signing bonus of all time. So they've committed $550 billion to finance projects in America that are important to the president and to American infrastructure. So we can build power means we could build 10 nuclear power
[00:36:29] plants. We could build fabs, right? We could build critical minerals. We could do ship building power. We could do anything and they will finance it and we split the profits of the project. 90% for America and 10% for Japan. And I don't think people can actually understand how powerful that is. This is the national security sovereign wealth fund, the United States of America, funded by President Trump's tariff
[00:37:03] policy, right, that produced that kind of money committed to America. It's Will that actually go into Congratulations. Will that go into a sovereign wealth fund that you've been talking about and the president has been talking about? No, I think this is this is separate. The what the president says about the sovereign wealth fund is we do a sovereign wealth fund that invests when we've done paying off our deficit. Okay?
[00:37:28] Right. First, we got to pay off our deficit before we're trying to make money. So what this is is this is the Japanese government says I will finance and I will pay for right not finance I will pay for you want to build a nuclear facility build it. You want to build 10 nuclear facilities you go build them. You want to go build a pipeline you go build it. You want to build uh fabs you go build it. Whatever
[00:37:52] you think is necessary you build it. We'll pay for it. You net lease it to an operator and we'll split the lease payments. 90 for you, 10 for Japan. It's a blockbuster if there ever was one. But it's an incredible deal structure. How do how do you get to that? Well, I got to that. So this I came up with this idea in uh in January and then I kept restructuring it to try to figure out how to do it because I met with some
[00:38:23] uh Japanese senior executives while uh before election before inauguration day and they said you know I understand your tariff policy but Japan's never going to open right they're just never going to open I mean in in 1850 Perry took an armada and tried to break it open in 1850 50 couldn't open it open the Japanese market. So come up with another idea and the other idea was they buy it down and so what structure we used how
[00:38:52] they did it they offered us they originally started offering us loans or loan guarantees and the president's like I don't need someone else to loans like I don't need to borrow money from someone else and then finally we figured out that really it just needed to be committed capital to back projects that we want and so it was five months in the making and and I'm me talking to the president about about doing different structures and eventually in the middle of last week we came to the structure
[00:39:20] the president said okay I like it let's bring him in and talk and then the president made the deal better are you going to replicate this is this like a new blueprint or is it unique to Japan which is protectionist and its own unique culture well I mean the problem that Korea has is they're staring at it you know they view themselves deeply competitive to Japan they both produce huge amounts of cars they both produce huge amounts of electronics. They both do these things
[00:39:47] and now they're looking at the price, right? And they're thinking, "Ouch." So, you know, how quickly did they come to see me? Let's say when we announced the deal and uh they were in my office uh today. So, the Koreans were Oh, yeah. Fantastic. How much how much have you prioritized market access for American businesses into some of these countries versus some of the other kind of uh trade considerations? Where does it
[00:40:12] prioritize? And we've talked about this a lot particularly as it relates to AI. And I think that part of this is in the uh the action plan and in the EOS being signed later today, but this is a broader question for American businesses. I work in agriculture. It's very hard to access overseas markets. Um and there's not a lot of par. Is that become key to some of these conversations? And where does it sit on
[00:40:34] the priority wrong? That that's the priority rule. So the rule is you must open your market. open, open, open. And and let's be clear, these markets have never been open. We have Stockholm syndrome in America. These markets have never been open. There's tariffs. There's non-tariff trade barriers like you can't sell an American car in these locations. Whether you want to or not, you're not allowed or they won't buy them because the seat belt is
[00:41:02] like this or the this is like they make these rules. So, we are demanding the markets are open. And the issue with Japan was they were never gonna open it. So what are we going to do? And the answer was all right. That's where he came up with this uh you know signing bonus, right? So reciprocity or something interesting if you want something more bespoke. Vietnam completely open, Indonesia completely open, Philippines
[00:41:30] mostly open, small deficit relatively higher tariff. Right? So it's all there's a sort of a lot of levers and you pull those levers. When are you going to wrap all this up? This has been like a really shocking and now I think kind of you know more mundane methodical approach. So when does it all wrap up and we can kind of put the tariff issue behind us? Okay. So on August 1st whatever hasn't been settled will be settled and the tariffs go into effect. Right.
[00:42:02] So all this 10%, they'll all just pop up to some higher number. He sent a letter to a lot of people, right? And now nothing stops them from negotiating the next day, but they're paying on that day. So that's next Friday. I mean, that's not that far away. So we're very busy because a lot of people are now coming to the table with their best best offer. But the price has gone very very high. And let's be clear what that price is. You will open your market to America.
[00:42:34] You will open it to ranchers, farmers, fishermen. You will open it, you know, you couldn't sell lobster to all these places. Like for instance, Indonesia is completely open except for two products. Muslim country, no pork, no alcohol, right? We're talking India obviously no beef, right? I mean, you do things like that. You say, "But we need it open." If they don't want it open, there's your tariff. It's 26% 27% 31% 19% whatever it is and then if you
[00:43:05] decide to open it later come on but that's what we're doing. You'll find out over time what other kind of regulatory processes they have put in place. This is always the issue when any any of us work in foreign markets. You've worked in foreign markets and you go in and then you find out well there's this thing I got to do and this thing takes 18 months or 36 months and they make it hard to get the permit or the whatever you need. There's always a way. Does this become like a
[00:43:29] continuous policing exercise for your department? And how does this become part of American trade? Like is this an ongoing kind of kind of iteration iterative process here? They've bought their tariff rate down by opening the market. So if they mess with that, they're messing with the president. And I don't know if you guys have seen him on TV, but that doesn't really work well. Yeah. Okay. So the idea is he's making the
[00:43:59] deal, he's closing the deal. So the way we we talk about it together is I set the table, right? And he closes the deal and and he is the best negotiator because he's just he's done this his whole life and he's the president of the United States. So that's an amazing power and he wields it to get the best deals. Well, let's talk about the big issue, China. Where are we going to wind up with China reciprocity, Tik Tok, the whole shebang? Is this going to be one big grand bargain? Taiwan, Tik Tok,
[00:44:30] there's so many issues. Is there any way to thread the needle on this? I I think the way I think about uh China is draw a line. Okay, there's below the line like they sell us uh baby clothes and we sell them soybeans. That stuff we need to do more of it. They we want to buy more of that. They want to buy more of ours. We need to open that. get this Dayton stuff, you know, where we're just flowing below the line. Got it. Above the line would be, you know, our
[00:45:03] best chips, Blackwell chips, H, you know, 200s and 100s, right? We don't want to sell them our best stuff. They don't want to sell us hypersonic missiles either, right? We would say if it was open, we'd say, "Well, let's take a couple of your hypersonics. Let's see what you got. Right? So, that's not happening." So, that's above the line. And then the question is, what's the line? That's the proper negotiation, right? Be open, below the line, let's get it on,
[00:45:28] good for both economies. Above the line, we're competitors. Let's just call it what it is and and stick with it. And then what we can really negotiate when we're together is the line. Where's Tik Tok in all this? Jacob and I are both pretty uh adamant this is spyw wear. This is something that should not be on a 100 million Americans phones. It is way too dangerous. They've proven themselves to use it to spy on
[00:45:53] journalists already. And the fact that they won't divest from it, I think, tells you everything you need to know. They see this as a critical weapon against the United States. Where what do you think? What does the administration think? Well, the the president is reasonably positive about Tik Tok provided it goes into American hands and it's controlled by American technology. Right. I think that's his view is that they've got to be out of it. It's got to be on an American technology stack and it's got
[00:46:20] to be owned by Americans, period. And then how we work it on through there. Uh we'll figure it out. Right now it it's sort of in that uh straddling the line. Yeah. You're sort of staring at each other, but eventually that'll get sorted out. I I think that deal will happen and uh America will buy Tik Tok because the alternative is just shuts it off and that just seems illogical. Can I go back to the above the line,
[00:46:44] below the line? Love that. Love that saying by the way. Um how do you think about the and you talked about the chips. How do you think about these export controls to various countries in various regions? What's your risk calculus about where those things should be? And and if I could just actually add a question that builds on top of that. You've talked about creating AI economic zones where trusted partners could get preferential access for American technology. So could you describe a little bit what your vision
[00:47:14] is for that? I think what we're wrestling with and this is we're really discussing literally the intellectual wrestle we're going through now is is the idea that we are comfortable with allies buying significant numbers of chips right and having a large cluster provided that cluster is uh operated by an American a trusted American operator and the cloud is a trusted American operator so that we know that giant cluster is surrounded by us.
[00:47:45] Right. Right. As you go down from there, right? That's where we go. Okay. If they want a smaller cluster, would you expand the number of people who are trusted, right? And the answer would be probably yes, right? And then when you go down from there to a smaller and smaller cluster, right? How do you deal with that? So I think it's cluster size is sort of the a way of thinking rather than saying uh you know because I went to Poland and I was in I was in Poland on a on a mission for the for the
[00:48:17] government and the prime minister of Poland chases me down and says what did I do to America to be tier three and I was like I thought you were part of Europe you know like I didn't understand what it could possibly be the issue so I think the answer is ally or not, right? Cluster size and who controls it or not. I think once once you sort of wrestle with those ideas and anybody who has ideas along those lines and you want to