[00:18:11] production capacity, electricity production capacity is about a terowatt today, growing to an estimated 2 terowatt by 2040. China's going from 3 to 8. They're adding in America every 18 months. Um, maybe you guys could just give us an update on the National Energy Dominance Council, how that work is going to try and accelerate energy production in the United States to help enable this AI boom. Well, h happy to do that. And I just want to say again, thanks to the all-in
[00:18:36] for pulling together this amazing uh team and Hillen Valley. Yes. And Hillen Valley, too. Thanks, Christian. uh we uh when when we look back on this day when historians look back on uh the the the challenge of our times which is like the summit called winning the AI arms race I think one of the things they're going to dis conclude is that the reason why the United States won the AI arms race was because of President Trump and and I'm not saying
[00:19:01] that as a political statement. I'm saying that the policy of the Trump administration is more energy fast and an understanding of how important it is uh for the AI arms race. And so with that, as you've just outlined, we've got a huge challenge ahead of us. Uh you know, China uh is deploying everything. I mean, they added 94 gawatts of coal last year. 1 gawatt's Denver. Uh they're 60 over 60% of their power is still coming from coal. They're just pouring uh pouring that on. The Wall Street
[00:19:29] Journal ran an article yesterday talking about what a great job that China was doing with EVs and with solar. I read the whole article. They never mentioned coal. It's twothirds of their electrical power. And and so then just by definition, I mean twothirds of the the EV cars in China should have a bumper sticker that says powered by coal. Uh so they are this is a we're in a race of our lifetime. They're also doing nuclear. They're doing hydro. They've
[00:19:54] got no permitting issues. I mean they build a hydro dam. It'd be like the equivalent of us putting a dam on the Grand Canyon what they were doing on the Yang Sea. So we've got real competition. We can lead in technology but we haven't been leading on electric production. So, the National Energy Dominance Council, part of the job that Chris and I have is helping through cut red tape, uh, produce more electricity, whether it's hydro, geothermal, nuclear, uh, and and and, and of course, LG, natural gas is a
[00:20:20] key part of this. And then bringing back coal and making sure that we stop shutting down base load in America, uh, has been a key part of what we're doing. Yeah. And he's just to riff off that where United States gets electricity today in order natural gas by far then nuclear then coal those three sources are 75% of US electricity and 90% of what matters which is electricity that's there whether the sun's shining or the wind is blowing. Um but we had in the
[00:20:50] previous administration's plans to remove three and a half gawatts of hydro power. We're going to stop that. There's plans between now and 2030 to close to close a 100 gigawatts of power plants. 100 gigawatts. Um and we're stopping most all that. Yeah. Just I I see the head nodding. Right. If we need to add a hundred after the meetings they had this morning, I think it's more than 100 gigawatts in the next five or seven years. The first thing to do is stop
[00:21:17] subtracting 100 at the same time you want to add a hundred. Um but I think America became great by big bold people making big bold investments. That's where we got here. And then we've just drifted off track the last bunch of years and made it so hard to build something so easy to stop something and just a crazy love affair with intermittent unreliable energy sources. You're talking about solar. Why are you so down on solar? This is the cheapest thing you can install. Batteries are
[00:21:45] here and they're being produced at a incredible rate. Why Why are we so anti-olar? Or why are you so anti-olar? Oh, I'm not anti- solar. So why do you keep saying then that like this unreliable solar if you put batteries on it it's totally reliable if you take all the batteries in the United States you could store 5 minutes of power 5 minutes of the entire country but if we've had many days in California and in Texas
[00:22:08] where solar has been the majority of it so why are you so down on solar it it can be the majority on a sunny day in the summertime that's not what matters you in PJM where we are right now at peak demand this year 97% % of electricity, wind, solar, and batteries delivered 3%. That's when it matters. If you're 20% cherry picking DC, you're cherrypicking DC. Let's talk about California and Texas. These are very voluous states in terms of population. Absolutely. Let's talk Texas. So, the
[00:22:39] peak demand times in Texas have been cold spells, low they're high pressure systems in the wintertime. Yep. Wind and solar go on vacation. They're 35% of the capacity in Texas, 8% of the delivered power at peak demand. Talking about 2 weeks. I live in Texas. Yeah, but those are the two weeks that matter, right? No, the other 50 are the ones that matter actually. But sure, in in in in Yuri when they weren't
[00:23:01] ready, over 200 people died. We we don't want people to die. We want the lights to go on when people need them. And and it's the system cost that matters. If you're not there at game time, all you are is a parasite on the systems that is there. Let me redirect this uh back to AI because um Good idea. Good idea. So if you if you actually forecast the growth of just the servers and then the robots and all of these things um we're going to need terowatts and
[00:23:34] terowatts that's on one side and so the obvious solution would be to build right to drill to do what we need to do and then on the other side is this latent fear that some people have that this will somehow upset the apple cart sustainability the climate etc. How do we create the logical bridge so that people really understand that this is all possible that this is not going to destroy the earth and that we can get
[00:24:01] this abundant energy especially because as you guys have said very well if we don't do it and somebody else has marginal costless energy they will de facto win. So how how do we frame the argument so that people can understand this better? Yeah, I've been writing and talking about that for 20 years and and you're 100% right. And to me, it comes down to the same thing AI is focused on, which is on data and facts. We've
[00:24:25] increased atmospheric CO2 by 50%, 100%. It absorbs infrared radiation. It's been a force for warming. That's all true, but if you look at the trade-offs on it, it's not in the top five problems the planet focuses. And what has been the biggest source of decarbonization, not just in the United States, but globally, has been market forces. Cheap natural gases, displaced coal, and and what what's what's a lower carbon energy source? Nuclear. That's on all the time. So, this administration all in to get
[00:24:55] the nuclear industry moving again. Natural gas is the fastest growing energy source on the planet. Get out of the way of that. Let natural gas grow. It's the cheapest source of electricity in the US. I'm pro solar as well. I just don't want taxpayers to pay for it. I want businesses to pay for it. But solar is going to keep growing. Solar is going to keep growing. When you got nuclear expansion, I just want to talk about nuclear expansion for one second. So, um, how do we actually
[00:25:20] build these things faster, have the capability and the, you know, the technical construction knowhow so that these aren't 15-year projects, but also how do we incentivize the states to basically get out of the way, uh, or like, you know, these other organizations that can launch the frivolous lawsuit, slow it all down. How do we do that? So, lot of regulatory firm things. One, we're working on FK, right? FK has this
[00:25:45] inefficient Q system that just gets gummed up with mostly stuff that's never going to happen. FK came out yesterday with a new system where you're going to prioritize things that matter. They're going to move through faster. Uh you saw the Supreme Court decision on on NEPA. We got to get NEPA back to where it was. A process check on the environment, not an avenue for lawfare to stop things and kill things. So
[00:26:08] there's structural changes. There's just common sense reforms. We're going to get rid of Clean Power Act 2.0. 0 that says you're going to have to have carbon capture and storage, you know, 15 years out on any natural gas is what's going to power AI. Let's just be honest. What's going to be the main source of new electricity in the United States by far and away? Natural gas just because it's cheapest, fast, it's reliable and dependable. Solar is going to play a
[00:26:32] role. Nuclear's going to play a role. Hydro, geothermal, stop closing coal, lots of pieces, but it's dominantly going to be natural gas. It's the fastest growing energy source, not just in the US, but in the whole planet. There's a reason for it. It's cheap. It's massively abundant. It burns clean. The machinery lasts longer than machinery burning oil or coal or something else. Um, but it's a let businesses, Doug and I are not here to
[00:26:56] tell anyone what to build and what not to build. We're here to get roadblocks out of the way so capitalism and and consumers and investors can decide where I mean, that's the good news. Solar is cheaper than coal plants, right? So, okay. So some some of the um some of the the scal the scalability of nuclear as simple as that. Yeah. The scalability of nuclear I think is unbounded. Um and what we've seen in
[00:27:19] China in the past couple of years is these generation 4 nuclear reactors. This pebble bed reactor is probably the most elegant, beautiful energy system designed in human history. It's incredible what it can do, the scalability, the the cleanliness of it, how it works. We have no effort in this country today to build and deploy Gen 4 reactors because there's no economic incentive. It the path to get there is so far. The cost is so high. What can
[00:27:43] the energy dominance council? What's what are you guys doing in your roles to make Gen 4 reactors? Because everyone's like go back to the AP 1000, these old Westinghouse designs from like 50 years ago and build that for nuclear. Why can't we build for the future? And what can we do to create the incentive to make this work? I was gonna say, I mean, the one thing that's already happened if if people are interested nuclear, which doesn't help us in the near-term race that we're in,
[00:28:06] the near-term race, as Chris said, is going to be won by us uh getting natural gas power online and stop shutting stuff down. But President Trump signed four executive orders on nuclear about 6 weeks ago. Uh and there's been a flood of capital, fresh capital coming in. We've got a bunch of venture capital going towards, you know, over over close to a dozen different uh SMR startups. Uh there's a lot of interest going on in that field. Chris's work with the
[00:28:31] national labs redirecting that. Uh I mean nuclear's got a future, but it's it's not the thing we need in the next 24 months right now. That's got to keep moving ahead. President Trump's executive order has helped that, but we've got to get focused on getting more power right now. Nuclear is the single biggest issue I work on. We will have three next generation Gen 4 reactors critical in Idaho National Lab next summer. M um we have we we're supplying
[00:28:56] Halo, the fuel for these next generation reactors to the we've already committed to five and we'll give it to a dozen of these next generation reactor companies. We worked in the one big beautiful bill to keep in the nudge the the tax credits for nuclear because the government smothered the industry and killed it for three decades. Even a free market guy like me thinks we need to get a little help to get it started. How far away are we till it's free market running?
[00:29:23] uh probably 10 years 10 years 10 years because it's just a learning curve with the the small modular reactors you got to build up the supply chain you got to build up and build them in volume the cost can come down dramatically but the first ones as you guys look at your energy demand curves do you account for this revolution happening in physical AI because every time I look at it's data centers this and buildings that but no one talks about physical AI which is
[00:29:46] batteries in robots and some people are estimating hundreds of millions or billions of these things being built trillions. Is this part of the the energy calculus as you think about demand? It it is it is a meaningful part of it and and and yes, the more you look at that, the more you see increased consumption of energy there and the more excited I get. The more we can build things at scale, the better we can get the economics. One one other data point
[00:30:11] we put out at the Department of Energy. We got 16 locations to build data centers. We said, "Who wants to come build one? We'll permit them right away. We'll help you build power generation right next to it." We got 300 responses. We we will announce tomorrow the first four of those sites that will be developed and then you'll hear many more coming behind that. How do we solve the um the supply chain issues around the turbines and the other
[00:30:35] enabling technologies that we need for things like Matt Gas because I I agree with you. Um I have a data center project in Arizona. It's a gigawatt and it'll be $25 billion of capital. But we're stuck in this weird situation where onshoring the the nat gas turbines are extremely difficult. Then you know you see certain people will just buy the nack gas entire plants and then ship them over. So how do we solve the supply
[00:30:59] chain constraints to generating the energy we need? Well, I wouldn't say if if again back to the immediate need right now. We need more power and we need power for factories that are producing AI like using Jensen's word which I think everybody should stop saying data centers because a data center if you're have a data center the way America thinks about them you're processing a shopping claim you know it helps the the
[00:31:21] seller the buyer and maybe a third party if you're processing a healthcare claim it's a provider a payer and a patient but in an AI it's general purpose technology it we're we're actually literally manufacturing every day over and over more intelligence and so that's different. It's not data centers. It's AI factories. And we've taken a look at NEC at the supply chain. If any of you are trying to build an AI factory and you need power and you haven't talked to
[00:31:46] Chris and I and our team inside the White House at the National Energy Dominance Council, you need to come and talk to us because we're mapping out talking to everybody in the industry. We're we're a neutral party, but we're saying here's where the shortages are. We've talked about things like the Defense Production Act. We've talked to companies that are producing turbines. everything we're doing, we say, "Hey,
[00:32:04] you've got to amp up because some of these people are sleeping on the sidelines." And they don't think there's going to be real demand. And we're saying, if anything, the demand is underestimated. So, we're trying to jack up the supply into the supply chain, but please contact us. Uh, we're there. Think of us not we're not a group that writes papers. We're a group that helps people build. We We help people build projects. That's what we do. Can't wait to visit. Just Just build a
[00:32:26] data center, Jake Helen. You'll get an invite. So, AI factory. AI factory. Somebody else can build data center. We got enough data. Secretary Bergen, right, can you as we finish up hit on the point we were talking about a little bit earlier, which is that you take a step back. The focus here upstream on these prioritizations from energy to critical minerals is not just you have a new market obviously on the AI side and there's huge demand and this buildout's important for national security. This buildout is important for winning uh the
[00:32:50] AI race. But the derivative impact is what's most interesting, right? These are thousands of jobs, tens, hundreds of thousands of jobs. And then on any of these manufacturing buildouts, particularly in factories, nuclear uh capabilities, they're going to lead to usually 10x the amount of indirect jobs as well. Back to Chim's point on the supply chain for these things. Can you talk a little about the job impact now
[00:33:07] that we're seeing? And then if we're successful here in this building at capacity, how many jobs are we talking about? How much how much can we actually help the middle class here? Well, it's a fabulous question, Christian, and I'm so bullish on the US economy because as our our friend Scott, who was just on here before us, but I mean, you take the combination of of lower taxes, dramatically lower regulation, accelerated permitting time, just accelerating permitting, uh there could
[00:33:30] be a trillion to a trillion half dollars stuck in this two to fouryear federal government permitting thing. we accelerate that expenditure of capital, the onshoring uh the greatest economic developer in history bringing foreign direct investment back to the United States, President Trump with these tariffs. You know what do we announce in Pittsburgh? It's $15 trillion that's coming back. So with AI, software has always been the one things that extended human capability more than any other in