[00:00:00] 43rd mayor of Miami. Served two terms since 2017 and his tenure is going to end in September because he's term limited. Although I hear these days that's flexible. Please welcome Francis Suarez. We're ranked the happiest city in America, the healthiest city in America. The formula for success is simple. Keep taxes low. Keep people safe. Lean into innovation. How are things going in Miami? Obviously, you know, we talked to you a
[00:00:28] couple years ago when we had our first all-in summit here and uh you had a nonsense approach that you thought was going to work with the homeless challenges that we're seeing. I think candidly we discussed a large portion of the homeless problem in these major cities is an addiction problem and you know giving a junkie a home doesn't exactly get them off the street. It just doesn't work. And you've you were one of
[00:00:51] the first people to say that plainly. How are you dealing with it? Has it gotten worse? Is it an intractable problem? Yeah. Take us through it. So, in homeless specifically, we are at an 11-year low. Uh we did our census, we do two census a year. We do one in uh January, one in in the summer. And our our January census had us at an 11-year low. We had 546 homeless, unsheltered homeless in the entire city of Miami. Um
[00:01:18] we have a couple thousand sheltered. And uh I actually raised money on an annual basis uh as a mayor's ball. I I did my mayor's ball last year and this year I'll be doing it in May 31st to end homeless. We want to be the first major American city to have zero homeless and we think we can get there. We call it functional zero and and and and frankly the the strategy is not that complicated. You know, obviously there's a macroeconomic
[00:01:43] strategy. We have the lowest unemployment in America. We have the highest median wage growth in America. We I lower taxes to the lowest level in history. And we've seen 140% growth in 9 years. So, the economy is robust. We were ranked the happiest city in America, the healthiest city in America. Frankly, if you're happy, you're healthy and you're working, you're probably not homeless. And then, of course, we've
[00:02:01] done innovative things in the homeless space. We've worked with um charitable organizations that uh help people reunify families if they live in other parts of the country. And also, we rent homes so that we can get around the building process and give all the same wraparound services, but we we sort of hack through that process. Those 500 individuals um who are categorized as homeless. Yeah. How many of them are
[00:02:24] suffering from mental illness andor self-medicating slashaddicted to drugs? A very high percentage. Um I would say 80% plus, right? And that's sort of anecdotal. Um but when I and I've been out to the streets, I'll I'll I'll be out there before my my homeless ball now on May 31st. I'm actually going to spend a night out on the street. Um and when you talk to them, when you engage in them, a vast majority of them are
[00:02:47] unfortunately. Okay, so let me double click on that. this problem wasn't as acute before the super drugs meth like the the serious meth um well the really serious ones they're making now and fentinyl right these this combination seems to be you know we had people addicted to heroin like Miles Davis and like Philip Seymour Hoffman who produced incredible art and were addicts for 30 years and they and they went in and out
[00:03:13] of it but this drug is pernicious different deadly super addicting how much of the problem are those two drugs specifically if you double clicked on it. A big part of the problem heroin or opioids. He's asking for a friend by the way. Just not I'm asking if you have a hookup. Clearly. No, but I'm I'm being deadly serious because we we had these homeless individuals in New York, you know, back in the day in the 70s ' 80s.
[00:03:38] They were kind of like um hobos and vagabons, not seriously addicted, you know, suffering where they're folding over and curled up in a ball from fentinel. Well, well, to your point, I mean, meth and and and uh the opioids are incredibly addictive and they're very hard to to to beat, right? I mean, even people who are are wealthy and get addicted to these drugs have a very hard time um the recidivism rate is very high
[00:04:02] and so uh you know, you just had Antonio on here a minute ago and he was talking about, you know, immigration and the border and one of the big problems with the border is the tens of thousands of people that die annually because of fentinel that gets imported through China and through our border. And so uh there's a tie-in, right, between federal policy and and local policy. But for us, um again, uh in 1980 during the the
[00:04:25] cocaine era, right, different drug, uh we had 220 homicides. So you had drugs hurting people, but you had the business of drugs very much hurting people, right? Last So we started recording homicides in 1946 in Miami. 1946, we had 32 homicides. From 1946 to today, the lowest number we ever had was 24. Last year we had 27. Wow. Okay. We had 220 in 1980. This year we're trending below the 24. So we may this may be the safest
[00:04:55] year in the history recorded history of Miami. Can you connect those dots there? Like I think I think when people think about social policy, everybody confuses the correlation and causation. Yeah. But you've been in the seat now for a long time. Yeah. So you've seen what hasn't worked, what has worked, what maybe has been correlated, but if you had to sort of like lay out the road map for other cities, but frankly for other states,
[00:05:21] the rest of the country, what's the road map? The Francis Suarez road map. The formula for success is simple. Keep taxes low, keep people safe, lean into innovation, right? Can we just double click into those? Of course. I can double click on each one of them. Let's take the other side of these things just to help the conversation because I believe in them but let's try to steal man the other side. Sure. Keep taxes low. What people
[00:05:44] say if you look at California and if you look at New York what they would say is we have a duty to invest in the social services and the infrastructure to support everybody that isn't necessarily as well or didn't get the right side of luck and we need to raise taxes in order to generate the revenues to fund that. My my counterargument would be government is not a good purveyor of those services. It's not an efficient
[00:06:06] purveyor of those services. So, so ju just to double click, right? I lowered taxes to the lowest level in history and I and I took the city in 2009 as a councilman in out of bankruptcy. So, I got it in bankruptcy. We decided this is sort of the Doge before Doge. We decided not to raise taxes. We cut cost. We we cut, you know, we didn't we didn't let anyone go, but we had tiered salary cuts, pension reform, and we balanced
[00:06:29] our budget, and we had 10 years of prosperity. And that prosperity led to a tripling of the size of our government. So we went from a $500 million government to a billion half dollar government while lowering taxes. So we we grew 200%. Right? So the the the resources that we had to dedicate to these actually went up even though taxes went down. And then uh you know uh when you have a place where there's prosperity and where people are
[00:06:54] investing and where people are employed, they're obviously not there's not as many social problems. So they're not out there killing people. um they're not out out there hurting people. So the 1980s we had you know we were one of the mur murder capitals of America and we're now one of the safest big cities in America. And then I think you know the the how can I help moment that you guys are all familiar with was this juxtiposition
[00:07:16] with what American cities were doing right famously New York competes for and wins the Amazon HQ2 prize right and then rejects it. Rejects it. Yeah. And and and also famously in California, you had a I guess it was a legislator that said, "F Elon Musk." Yeah. Elena Gonzalez. Exactly. And she and he replied, "Message received." And he left. And then she went to run a union, right? Is that where she ended up? Yeah. I think
[00:07:37] she went to work for a union. She's the CEO of one of the big unions now. But the issue is what I tell people is look, it's it's bad enough to kick out a trillion dollar company from your city or the richest person arguably in the world from your city. But think about the the signal. The signal to me is much much greater, right? The signal is if you want to bring another headquarters or if you want to be another company, we
[00:07:55] just got FC Barcelona two days ago. We announced that FC Barcelona moved their headquarters from New York to Miami, right? Every single day um we announced, you know, 900 million dollars of loans in two projects in the last two days in two buildings, you know, our stadium, our Inter Miami stadium. We have the FIFA World Cup headquarters for 2026 in the in the world, right? So, I mean, this formula for success, it seems
[00:08:17] simple, other cities are getting it wrong completely backwards, right? their taxes are high, it's not safe, and they're not leaning into they're rejecting innovation. Are there are there downsides to growing this fast? Like are there things that have to keep up that are harder to change like building code, housing density, you know, those sort of cost of living things like have those have you guys been able to drive reform there or is
[00:08:39] that is that not where you wanted to be? So Ken Griffin recently was interviewed in a fireside chat like this and said, "I'd rather have the problems of success than the problems of failure." And so there's no doubt that there are problems that stem from success, right? And housing prices, you had a tremendous amount of inflation in the last administration and you you you sort of couple that with hyper demand here in
[00:08:59] Miami and you get hyperinflation, right? So housing costs have certainly gone up significantly. And we do everything we can to leverage public dollars and public assets like land to try to build projects at a 15 to1 or 20 to1 leverage rate. So for $100 million invested, we'll get $2 billion worth of projects. Um, there's a 5 million h, you know, 5 million housing shortage across the country and Miami has its fair share
[00:09:22] just like any any other major city. Traffic, I know none of you guys have experienced any bad traffic this last few days, right? I was in the car two two hours and 40 minutes going over to that. I'm not going to I'm not going to tell you how far along we are with the Boring Company on trying to find underground boring systems or with some of the EV toe companies that we're working with. But I do think that transportation generally has to sort of
[00:09:42] turn the page from, you know, last generation's archaic um solutions to next. How did you get that train that what do you call it? The sunshine line or something. Bright line. Yeah. The Bright Line. Yeah. How did you get that done so quick? And everybody says it's the greatest thing ever. That's a private sector project uh that was done by company. Um we had a piece of it which was we did a piece from with Tri
[00:10:01] Rail to bring it into the station. And when we did that piece, we made it free for inner city residents to be able to use. So it was something that I was very proud of was part of my legacy. So a private company built it, correct? You gave them the right of way. They bought the right of way. So it was totally private. So look, we have microobility options that are private like scooters. So all you did was just not get in the
[00:10:21] way. Exactly. Shocking. By the way, what an idea. Let me Yeah. Let me let me ask you h how how can It's like the hypocratic oath. Do no harm. Do no harm. How can mayors address they they come into office with a reform motivation and they're elected on, hey, we've got to we don't have what what Miami has. We got to fix this. We got to get get the city working again. We got to attract business. We got to track growth. And
[00:10:47] they inherit this regulatory morass, this massive infrastructure. Like San Francisco recently, I I I got all caught up in the fact that you can't put these phone booths in your office. You know, a lot of startups, I don't know if any of you guys have these, these these phone booths, you got to have someone go in and make a call. You put the phone booth in. And all my startups, all the companies I've been involved in, you
[00:11:09] can't put one in San Francisco. So, you you put these phone booths in and then you can go in and make calls. So, when everyone's in an open desk configuration, but you got to do a private call, you hop them in. Everyone loads up their offices with these phone booths. In San Francisco, they're illegal. Turns out that you need to run you and there's a piece of paper, which I was actually going to tweet because
[00:11:27] it's insane. It's like three pages long. All the things you need to know about the phone booths that you want to put in your office. You got to get an architect review, an engineering review, a design review. You got to get sign off from the engineer. You got to submit the permitting fees. It gets reviewed by the city inspector's office. You got to design fire sprinklers that have to go into the phone booth. That's nuts. In
[00:11:43] case there's a fire in the phone booth, someone needs to put out the fire in the That's hilarious. So, I was talking I was talking to some folks about like what are you going to do about this? But the mayor's kind of like, I don't know if there's enough action that I can take because it's it's it's in law that there's all this kind of regulatory stuff. How do you advise mayors that are stuck with this sort of an environment?
[00:12:03] And this is not just San Francisco. There's a lot of big cities in this country that have books and books of this stuff. And we can talk about philosophically why this has happened, sociologically why this has happened. Books and books of this stuff where the city can't get out of the way. What do the mayors do? when you guys get together like is there any advice or are we stuck like what's the what's the solution? We're not stuck. I I I think
[00:12:25] it it's cultural right at some level you have to inculcate a culture where you empower your employees to innovate and and to to uh you know deconlict. I think uh when people come to me with a problem I say look first first issue is if there's something that's blocking it that doesn't make any sense why don't we just change it? We're legislators. That's what we do. We legislate so we can fix it. uh maybe it happened maybe
[00:12:48] it made sense 20 years ago maybe it made sense 50 years ago doesn't make sense today let's just change it I think regulation is the is the other side of the coin from innovation right so regulation is telling you what you often times what you can't do or or how to do something innovation is to protect loss it's sort of a first principles thinking we're going to we want to do this right we we want to make this work and I think
[00:13:07] uh I always not always but I regularly fall on the side of innovation and I think you you you as a public official frankly who's elected by the people really are the one that has to push the bureaucrats, the bureaucrat class, right? The bureaucrat class, they get very accustomed to saying no. They're riskaverse. Um, you know, they're not incentivized often times, right? There's no incentive structure that says, "Hey,
[00:13:28] if you innovate, you're going to get X or Y or Z." And then I think the third piece of it is artificial intelligence. I really feel that there's a breakthrough that's going to come and it's not just in transportation. We're talking about EV tools and and underground boring and all that, but I think in in zoning codes and and all that, it's it's going to be computer to computer, right? So the codes are all straightforward, right? We have the same
[00:13:50] code for 15 years, right? Probably 97 or 8% of all known decisions have already been made under this code, right? So all they have to do is be replicated going forward, right? Unless the code changes and then you just change the coding and you make the decisions all over again. So it's not that complicated. You should be able to submit something. The computer should be able to spit it out immediately. If it needs changes, it
[00:14:08] should tell you what the changes are. A computer could look at that, make the changes, and spit it back in. Right? And if you were to do that, you know, it takes to get a permit on a on a home in most places in America or on a building in most places in America, you know, 6 months, 9 months, a year, a year and a half. I mean, it's insane. It should be done instantly. And it could literally be done instantly with a technology that
[00:14:29] we already have available to us today. Hundred billion dollar business, by the way, in case anybody's a great idea. It's a killer idea. I think some startups have worked on it too. Um I know multiple that are working. Yeah, they work on the other side of it. Building on Freeberg's point, the two best proposals I heard about regulations and I'm curious if you could steal me on them or you know just how practical you
[00:14:49] think they are. Putting um a time limit on regulations. So if you fought for some regulations around these phone boots back when foam boots, you know, Superman changed his costume in them from the 60s and 70s, like back from that era, maybe it lasts for 20 years and then it expires or you want to add two regulations to office space regulations. You got to take one off the books, you know, and and those were the