[00:13:07] uh I always not always but I regularly fall on the side of innovation and I think you you you as a public official frankly who's elected by the people really are the one that has to push the bureaucrats, the bureaucrat class, right? The bureaucrat class, they get very accustomed to saying no. They're riskaverse. Um, you know, they're not incentivized often times, right? There's no incentive structure that says, "Hey,
[00:13:28] if you innovate, you're going to get X or Y or Z." And then I think the third piece of it is artificial intelligence. I really feel that there's a breakthrough that's going to come and it's not just in transportation. We're talking about EV tools and and underground boring and all that, but I think in in zoning codes and and all that, it's it's going to be computer to computer, right? So the codes are all straightforward, right? We have the same
[00:13:50] code for 15 years, right? Probably 97 or 8% of all known decisions have already been made under this code, right? So all they have to do is be replicated going forward, right? Unless the code changes and then you just change the coding and you make the decisions all over again. So it's not that complicated. You should be able to submit something. The computer should be able to spit it out immediately. If it needs changes, it
[00:14:08] should tell you what the changes are. A computer could look at that, make the changes, and spit it back in. Right? And if you were to do that, you know, it takes to get a permit on a on a home in most places in America or on a building in most places in America, you know, 6 months, 9 months, a year, a year and a half. I mean, it's insane. It should be done instantly. And it could literally be done instantly with a technology that
[00:14:29] we already have available to us today. Hundred billion dollar business, by the way, in case anybody's a great idea. It's a killer idea. I think some startups have worked on it too. Um I know multiple that are working. Yeah, they work on the other side of it. Building on Freeberg's point, the two best proposals I heard about regulations and I'm curious if you could steal me on them or you know just how practical you
[00:14:49] think they are. Putting um a time limit on regulations. So if you fought for some regulations around these phone boots back when foam boots, you know, Superman changed his costume in them from the 60s and 70s, like back from that era, maybe it lasts for 20 years and then it expires or you want to add two regulations to office space regulations. You got to take one off the books, you know, and and those were the
[00:15:13] two proposals I've heard. Some way of timing these out or um if you want to add, you got to take you got to find something to take off. Are either of those practical? I kind of like the first one better than the second one because the second one I mean this sort of one for one I mean there's got to be a reason to do one or the other. Right. Okay. I I like the first one better. Um actually what we normally do in
[00:15:32] government is the opposite. What we do is we do what we call pilots, right? So you'll do something that goes away very quickly, right? In other words, you imple implement a piece of legislation say, "Oh, we're going to do it for a year. Let's test it out." Right? And it's a pilot and then it goes away. Um, I I like what you're saying in terms of, you know, a big part of regulatory culture can probably be phased out over
[00:15:53] a 15 20 year period as being anacronistic, right? It just doesn't a year get reviewed and you you're the government's responsible for reviewing 5% a year for 20 years and they reertify it or right and and then you have the ability to reimplement it if you think it makes sense. But I think what happens is you go back down to zero. you were asking Antonio and I was I was listening to the conversation because we did we
[00:16:16] did it like I said we had to cut our budget by 20% in one year and uh and part of the problem is budgeting is like layering right it all layers on top of each other same as regulation it layers on top of each other so if you were to be able to strip it down in a mechanical way right in an instantaneous way as opposed to having to fight the the the structures in our case we were very lucky there was a state statutory
[00:16:37] vehicle that allowed us to implement the cuts otherwise we'd have to bargain for them in a in a union process and obviously no one would ever bargain to cut their salaries. There would no never bargain to cut. It would nothing would have happened. We would have come we would have been bankrupt and then a court would have taken us over. We would have looked like a joke and instead we we cut costs and we and we survived and
[00:16:56] we thrived right going forward. And by the way, my employees now love me. They were not happy the first couple years when we did it. But now they they they um I mean I don't even have to go to a union interview when I when I run for office. They just support me right away. Do you want to be governor? I don't think it's quite that simple. I want to dunk. I want to dunk. Yeah, I want to be able to dunk, too. Uh, look, I think
[00:17:16] that I'm a Republican for those of you who don't know, and uh, you know, the president's already weighed in the Republican primary. I respect the president's uh, perspective. I have a good relationship with Congressman Donald's. So, I I think politics is very circumstantial. Um, we've talked about that a lot in the past. So, you know, things sometimes conspire in your in your favor. Sometimes sometimes things
[00:17:36] don't, right? And I do think it is circumstantial. So, I think you have to weigh the circumstances. You know, I ran for president because I had a had a thesis. The thesis was urban voters, Hispanics, and young voters, if they went Republican, would favor the Republican candidate or Republican candidate win. And it they did. It just wasn't me, right? It was a different candidate. But, you know, the president did a great job on podcasts, right?
[00:18:00] Going on all these podcasts that, you know, the vice president didn't do. Um, and he got young voters and he got urban voters. Uh, look, a Republican's never going to win Philadelphia, right? Trump lost Philadelphia to Biden by 85%. But he lost Philadelphia to Kamla by 75%. And and that delta, the 75, 85, that 10% delta gave him Pennsylvania. Yeah, that's the election, which was such a crucial state, right? Like arguably the
[00:18:25] the winning state. So you you know, Republicans are never going to necessarily win urban votes or the urban population centers throughout America. But you're also seeing and and I think it's important to note you're seeing Democratic mayors lose across America. London Breed lost in San Francisco. Yeah. Tashara Jones lost in St. Louis. The mayor of of Chicago, Lori Lightoot lost. On that point, you were the or
[00:18:48] still are the head of No, I was I was a president US Conference of Yeah. for a year and a half. Okay. If if if we had to ask you, you can't live in Miami. Yeah. You met all those mayors. Who where are two places that you think are actually well-run that aspire, you know, to do something great and have their [ __ ] together? Cities. Take your time. I don't jump to an answer. I I'll say this. I I'll tell you a mayor that I like. How about that?
[00:19:12] Okay. Justin Bib. Justin Bib is a mayor of Cleveland. We got a couple Cleveland people here apparently. There we go. Justin is a good friend. Uh I have a lot of friends that are mayors. I'm a mayor. You know, I love all my mayors because I was a president of that institution. But I think Justin is a young, dynamic guy who's smart, not super partisan, cares tremendously about his city, and and we talk a lot about it because obviously
[00:19:37] Miami and Cleveland are a little different, right? On the margins, that's fair. Uh and and we joke about it. He says, you know, I wish I had the kind of problems you have. To go back to sort of the Ken Griffin quote, you know, they they don't struggle with affordable housing. They got plenty of affordable housing cuz people don't necessarily want to live there. Um uh sorry Jay sorry Jay I love you bro. Uh but but it's true right? It's kind of
[00:20:00] true. So so he's dealing with economic uh development. He's dealing with he wants to he wants to be the Miami of Ohio in terms of getting investment getting the tech community there getting people special people to move into his community and believe in his vision. And uh I think look company building is hard as you guys know you guys have built some incredible companies. Ecosystem building is even harder, right? It's
[00:20:23] it's it's a thousandx harder than building a big company. I mean, companies take years into decades and ecosystems take decades into centuries. Yeah. It's too different. Yeah. Is there something that inside of the next gubernatorial campaign, let's say you don't run for governor, that's a high impact job at the state level? Not really. I get to practice and I have a private sector life. Uh I have a 11-year-old and a
[00:20:47] seven-year-old. So, I mean, if the president called me and said, you know, I want you to be the US ambassador to, you know, a country that I have a passion to help, you know, in terms of the United States, in terms of their relationship and world peace and things of that nature. Um, which I think are high ROIs for for the time investment and the financial sacrifice that you have to make. I would strongly consider it. But other than that, I
[00:21:11] mean, I'm I live a very blessed life, you know. I I I'm the mayor of the best city on the planet, you know. Yeah. And I have incredible, incredible, incredible bosses. These are my bosses. I have the best bosses in the world. Yeah. And they're constantly encouraging me. They're constantly cheering me on. And and and I live and breathe for them. I wake up early in the morning. I go to bed late. And I carry their problems,
[00:21:33] their hopes, and their dreams in my soul. All right. Give it up for Francis Suarez, your mayor. Thank you to our friend Francis Suarez, the mayor of Miami, for joining us on stage at our F1 event. And thanks to you, the audience for tuning in. Give us a like, a thumbs up, a subscribe, write a review, whatever you're into. Maybe send it to a friend if you want to come to our next event. It's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles. Fourth year for
[00:21:58] All-In Summit. Go to allin.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team which won the race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their new crypto exchange here in the US. If you love All-In, go check them out. And a special thanks to our friends at
[00:22:26] Circle. They're the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar redeemable one for one for USD. It's built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap between the digital economy and outdated financial reality. Go check out USDC for all your stable coin needs. And special
[00:22:53] thanks to my friends, including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. Let your winners ride. [Music] We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Queen [Music] of besties are gone. That is my dog taking it on a share driveway. Oh man, my habitasher will meet up at We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just
[00:23:39] It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release somehow. [Music] We need to get mercy. [Music] I'm going all in.