[00:41:59] nor a Republican problem. It is a congressional problem, meaning both sides consistently spend way more than they should. So you have the debt growing at 7% and you have GDP between, you know, 2 and 4%. So that's a recipe for disaster. What Duck said in that note is you have to cut entitlements. He's probably right. The question is when? and who will force the United States to confront this issue? Who will force the United
[00:42:32] States Congress to confront the issue? And what he is saying is the bond market is going to start to do this because that single price is the true reflection of the good faith and trust in the United States. And as that yield goes up, the very simple rubric is trust is going down. Yield goes up, trust goes down. The other thing that I would say is this is happening at an incredibly awkward moment, which is that we are
[00:43:01] supposed to be in the middle of an enormous financial buildout to support AI. And if you go all the way back like a hundred years, you know, the industrial revolution, the grand bargain, all of this stuff, the United States government was the balance sheet, right? They were the ones that were able to step in. And unfortunately because if it's financial situation the US government is not able to do that. That's why thank god we have companies
[00:43:27] like Nvidia and Google and Microsoft and Meta and Amazon who take on that burden. And so I just wanted to tie it to this other thing because there's so much chirping by the way on the internet about the balance sheet of Nvidia and blah blah blah. And I think people completely miss that these guys are putting the entire US economy on their back. A hundred years ago, it would have been the US government that did this. But the
[00:43:51] US government is not in a position to do it because Congress cannot get their act together on spending. The president actually has done something pretty incredible, which is on the tail end of those trade deals. If you guys remember, he was able to find $2 trillion to pump into the US economy to support this buildup. But the practical reality is that two trillion comes from other nation states and their processes are long and
[00:44:17] meandering. So you have the situation where all this money has to be invested. It should be backs stop by the US government. It's not in a financial situation to do so. The president has done some magic to try to relieve it in the short term, but it's only a short-term band-aid. The real solution, as Freeberg says, is Congress needs to come together and realize that they must now fix this problem. Because if you see
[00:44:41] yields, if you see the third year at 6%. It is the beginning of a death spiral. It's not going to be immediate, okay? So, don't freak out, but it is the beginning of some extreme pain. And that pain will last years. And the only thing that solves it now is getting the budget under control, which is a congressional act. It must happen. Whether it's this year or the next year, it just has to happen. >> Saxs, the president was quite vocal
[00:45:10] about cutting costs early on in the presidency, but we haven't heard much from the commander-in-chief about this. Is the issue that no politician can touch cutting spending? It's just too toxic because Trump's in his final term. He's lame duck by definition, right? is the second and only term hopefully unless he decides to take a third. Um, but he hasn't been vocal about this. And is it just too radioactive for anybody
[00:45:35] in politics? And you got to spend a little time. You dipped your toe there in in DC. Is it just too toxic for anybody to take on spending cuts? He sent Elon in there. That was, you know, pretty spicy. And it's obviously um not occurring now. We're not cutting things massively. in in fact this the debt's going faster than it had started a year ago. So what's your thought here Sax? Give maybe you can move it out from just
[00:46:02] Trump. >> Yeah. Look, part of it is it is a tragedy of the commons meaning you've got 435 members of the house, 100 senators and they all get a vote and then you've got the president and no one of them controls the spending. In fact, the spending the power of the purse originates in the house and then goes from there. So it is very very hard to control spending when you have so many people weighing in. If it was just, you
[00:46:22] know, a couple of people getting together in a room and sorting this out, they probably could do it. But when so many people have an incentive to basically protect their programs, it gets very, very hard. So that's the tragedy of the commons part of it. And the reality is the president doesn't have a line item veto. It'd be great if he did. He doesn't have the powers constitutionally to completely reign this in. And despite what the resistance
[00:46:48] liberals say, he's not a king. I mean, he doesn't have those kinds of powers. That's basically the heart of the problem. And you're right, he did back Doge to the hilt. He's the only president to ever back something like that. And what happened? Elon got to the point of cutting one agency or one sub agency. And the hysteria was so great that they accused him of killing millions of children. It was total nonsense. But Tesla dealerships were
[00:47:12] getting firebombed. And that's the other piece of this is how do you make reform? How do you reform spending? How do you rein it in when the media isn't on your side and is not willing to report this stuff accurately? That's the worst part of it. I mean, the media, they don't have an incentive politically to engage in log rolling, but they do absolutely nothing to report the story accurately. I mean, just think about how the media
[00:47:34] is reacting to all of that. So, it's really a difficult problem when you start off with the fact that no one person controls it. you know, it really is this tragedy of the commons and then you don't have the media basically doing a good job reporting this accurately. So I, you know, I don't know how we get reform on this and let me just say that if if the Republicans lose control of Congress, I don't think that's going to
[00:47:57] make it better because you see now >> that the political energy in the Democrat party is all towards these massive new spending programs that the DSA wants. So, you know, if you vote for quote unquote change by voting the Democrats in, that's not going to help either because again, they just want more and more spending. So, I don't know what the solution to this is. >> Four, give us a timeline here. Obviously, the Republicans love to cut
[00:48:21] taxes. Um, and the Democrats love to increase spending. And here we are. Uh, this has not gotten better through three or four presidents. The last person who did this was I guess Clinton balanced the budget, but this has been getting worse and worse. At some point, we're all in agreement. This is going to come to due and we're going to have to have some austerity measures. When does that hit in your mind? Is there a breaking
[00:48:48] point in terms of interest to GDP? Uh maybe the people on the other side just saying, "Hey, I want 12%." You guys have bad debt. I want 12% on it. and we just say we can't pay 12% and we just have to go into full-on austerity measures. Is there a breaking point? If so, when? Well, the question is what does it break to? We as a democracy have this recursive solution which is as the people feel some sort of pain, they react with a vote.
[00:49:26] This goes back to this point about do we break for socialism because what ends up happening post the midterms. So I think sometime between 26 and the election cycle in 28 the inflation problem and remember the inflation problem is fundamentally rooted in government spending. So deficit spending is correlated very nicely with the cost of housing with the cost of healthare with the cost of education and with the cost
[00:49:52] of everything else. So the more the government is spending on various things, the the more expensive things get. And so inflation is persistent because what we thought were temporary emergency stimulus measures during CO very quickly got normalized and became persistent spending cycles. You know, if we went back to 2019, we would actually have a budget surplus right now as a country. Our economy has grown so much
[00:50:19] since 2019 that if we had the same spending levels as we had in 2019, our federal government would be making a profit paying down the debt. And the reality is we've taken this emergency spending and made it a permanent spending. We did the same thing by the way after the global financial crisis in 2008. There were some crazy stimulus things that happened and we persisted that spending. And so the question JakeL
[00:50:44] is really like what happens next? So if the inflation remains high, people's affordability continues to go low, they're going to vote for something that's going to give them a solution. And I don't see a political message winning that says the federal government will now spend less. We're going to cut a bunch of stuff. So I worry that the one-way solution here is something that is very damaging to individual
[00:51:08] liberties, to a lot of the rights, a lot of the things that make a free market work. and that is some of these more kind of socialist principles and socialist candidates >> assets. I think that's kind of the breaking point. So I think it's it's more of like a you know spectrum and then the reaction during that kind of transition phase 26 to 28 can be negative. Then the next big thing is going to happen around 2030 to 2032. And
[00:51:31] that's really where Social Security doesn't have any money to pay anymore. And I think during that era is also when a lot of the states are going to become bankrupt. We're not going to be able to pay their obligations. And when the states can't pay their obligations around 2030 to 2032, you're going to have both the Social Security bailout and restructuring as well as the state bailouts and restructuring. And that
[00:51:50] might be the time that all of this stuff breaks. >> Wow. I mean, so you're saying we'll see munis. Uh, yeah. And people will default on their debt in the states. That would be cataclysmic to have to bail out something like California. >> Well, because the obligations on the unfunded pensions in the states are so significant. And not to mention just the debts. I mean, look, California's got tens of billions of dollars spent on
[00:52:12] this stupid railway that goes nowhere where there's no tracks. And they're talking political will to even stop that. It' be the easiest cut in the world. >> Like, just think about the idiocy. Like no one is saying we shouldn't do this. Why is no one saying we shouldn't do this? >> That's what I'm saying about the media. >> Trillion dollar. Anybody who was in favor of a railway to nowhere should just be shamed out of
[00:52:34] existence. >> Trillion dollars for a train from San Francisco to Fresno that costs more than an airline ticket is so idiotic. It's like the movie Don't Look Up. Like look up. This thing is absolutely ridiculous. Turn this thing off. Why is no one even just saying turn it off? It tells you everything you need to know. >> Private company built a Bright Line in Florida and they seem to figure out how to do it at a fraction of the price. So
[00:52:57] like what are we even talking about here? Like private industry, if this was a good idea, would have built it. Yes, Freedberg. Private industry would see an opportunity and they would have built it. There is no opportunity here. >> Across the board, these government programs cause more harm than good. When the government intervenes in underwriting student loans and gives everyone a loan, administrative costs
[00:53:20] went up by 6x and tuition skyrocketed 8% a year, compounding for 30 years because the government said we'll underwrite any student loan. The same with housing and now no young people can afford a house. The same with health care where they said we'll pay people to stay home and not work to take care of people and we won't check on whether or not they're actually taking care of people. and the cost of healthcare skyrocketed. You go
[00:53:45] across every one of these government programs and every one of them has the adverse effect of driving up costs and inflating everything. The core root of inflation in this country. The core root of it is government spending. And the reason we are going to end up becoming a socialist country is because we aren't reigning in the government spending and looking it in the mirror and saying, "Guys, this is idiotic. What are we
[00:54:09] doing?" And now the markets to Chamas's point are telling us this is idiotic. We are not going to underwrite this anymore. And we need to have to your point about media sacks 100 Nick Shirley 60 Minutes whoever it is to just say hey this spending this fraud is not acceptable and we need to send people in to go recapture that money. This is like we're burning money that we don't the fraud is layer one. There's like 18
[00:54:35] layers to this. Layer one is fraud. Yes. Of course. you know, >> and given given the the tragedy of the commons, the structural nature of it, that there's no one person who's in control of it, you need massive public pressure to control it, and there's none of that. And there's no effort to create that public pressure by the mainstream media. So, it's like, how do you even get out of this? And >> I don't think it happens that way. It
[00:54:56] has to be an acute moment. >> Yeah. You're saying there has to be a crisis and then people react. But then to Freeberg's point, we may get socialism because people may not connect what the real causes of the crisis are. >> And Freeberg, that's my question for you. >> No, socialism is much more likely when you know a 100 years ago when these things are less interconnected. America can't decide to do that. You understand
[00:55:17] why? Because all of our debt is interconnected to domestic actors, international actors. It's not a decision. There is no button you can push to do that. And the reason is you would go bankrupt overnight. So I think the reality is that we will hit some kind of a fiscal wall. Something will get terribly broken and like in COVID or like in GFC or like in 9/11, those are the only moments where you can have structural changes in expectations. The
[00:55:48] structural changes that have had the most impact on our lives happened in these acute moments in 9/11, in GFC, and in CO. >> Yeah. And every one of them it ended up becoming a never let a crisis go to waste moment where it always argued in favor of some big power by the government. >> What was your question for me? >> Okay, so you think about like affordability of houses, right? That depends on mortgage rates. 30-year
[00:56:13] mortgage right now I'm looking at the average is 6.73%. A little under 7%. It's about 150 basis points above the 30-year Treasury, right? So do you think the average person can connect the dots here that higher spending means higher treasury rates which means higher mortgage rates and that leads you to not be able to afford the same level of house that you would because your monthly payment is much higher. I mean do people connect
[00:56:43] those dots about what's happening? >> No. No. But people want to blame someone. Every time there's a crisis, this group, even us, when we get together on a podcast, something bad happens. We always have this question, who is to blame? >> It's the first thing a human does. >> Yeah, [laughter] exactly. >> And literally the human that's human. >> No, [laughter] I mean that's the human brain. That's how it works. It's like
[00:57:05] there's some problem. Who do we blame? That's the first thing you think about. >> You you don't think you don't think objectively what's the solution to the problem? You think who do I blame? That's the first thing you want to do. And then the question is when mortgage rates go up, who do you blame? The current president, my congressman, blah blah blah, reelect someone. That's the response. And the person that shows up
[00:57:25] and says, "I'm going to give you free housing. I'm going to give you a free bus. I'm going to give you free mortgages. I'm going to take away the the land from the landlord and give it to you." You vote for that person. So, I do worry that the the kind of mechanistic response to what you're describing, Sachs, which is a very problematic situation for people, is the lack of affordability of being able to get a home, is give the keys of the
[00:57:49] kingdom over to someone that's going to put more fuel on the fire. And the fire is government spending, and the fuel is more government spending to try and quote solve a problem that's caused by the fire. And I think that's really where I worry about this. >> So, I think I know how we can blame Daario. >> Okay, circle [laughter] it around. What did he do? >> Here's the thing. Our only hope is AI, right? Because only AI can create the
[00:58:15] exponential growth necessary >> Yes. >> to make our economy grow big enough that we can grow out of the problem. >> Yes. >> And if we hold back AI by creating some new regulatory apparatus that takes years to approve new model releases, then we're cooked. Completely and Canada and Putin. Those are the those are the three people who are working. >> I'm just I'm just kidding. Joking. We're joking. Dario, come to