[00:14:26] guiding up. And that's why the stocks ripped. I think was it like up 43% since I said it had bottomed. I mean it took a >> Yeah, it was up 20% today just on that. And Freeberg, I think you were in Were you on CNBC or you just on the quarterly call? >> I went to Benny Off's office for the earnings setup yesterday. So Daario was there. Daario and Mark did their CNBC bit. They set up a studio for the earnings call on the 60th floor, you
[00:14:52] know, where we've all had dinner up there. And then I did the earnings call with Mark cuz you know about a year ago I think I mentioned this to you Chimoth like we kind of over a weekend built a CRM tool internally using uh cloud code and cursor and stuff and kind of spun it together and stood it up and we were using it and then it's like well you got to add this feature and you got to change this and then account and
[00:15:14] security and access and where's the data repository that makes it protected and there was a lot of kind of back and forth on all the features we ultimately needed to build to make it truly useful and scalable. Meanwhile, we've got competing interests at our company on where we can build software that's unique to our company like plant breeding software which is what we do as kind of our unique advantage as a
[00:15:36] company is plant breeding. So, how do we build a better breeding technology platform? How do we build software that gives the the people in the lab and in the greenhouse and the breeders tools? And so we started building all these internal tools and eventually realized our time, our efforts, our energy is better spent building the workflows that are unique and create value for our organization uniquely versus recreating
[00:16:00] a bunch of software that other people have already made. Where's your best ROI, your best return on time spent and your best return on dollars spent? And it's not on rebuilding a communications tool like Slack or a messaging tool like Gmail or a CRM tool like Salesforce. And at the time Mark and I were talking on the phone, he's like, you know, hey, try Salesforce. I'll set you up. Come on, do it. And I was like, no, no, no.
[00:16:22] And then he's like, yes, yes, yes. And he and he's so persistent. You guys know Mark. He's like so persistent. He put his like best sales guy on a text with me and kept texting every day. Are we up yet? Are we up yet? Are we up yet? Until the sales guy I said, okay, go to my office. He goes to my office. He gets set up and we're and then we're done. And then we realized, oh my god, this is actually a much better way for us to do
[00:16:41] this. So Mark asked me to come and recount that story at the earnings call and talk a little bit about the view on this change. So I do think and I've shared this in the past I think the horizontal platform companies these tools that are horizontal CRM works across many different verticals industry verticals and Gmail works across many industry verticals and Slack and so on. Excel no one's going to go rebuild
[00:17:01] Excel. The the real value is in the the software that's unique for your vertical. That's where AI plays a role in building custom workflows and custom software. And so I think that's kind of how I view this, the real SAS apocalypse. It's more of a vertical SAS apocalypse, which is software that's designed for just one vertical%. >> Um, and that's where I think things get blown up. >> I totally agree with you.
[00:17:23] >> A platform like Salesfor. >> I totally agree with you. I totally agree with you, >> Sax. Let's talk about Mark Beni off. He is just an incredible salesperson who just fought through the SAS apocalypse and then figured out a way out of being put in the bucket of SAS roadkill and then just massively um integrating AI into the platform. Maybe you you've known him for a long time. Maybe you could talk about him as an executive and
[00:17:51] what we can learn from what he just did in terms of going from in the market's mind roadkill to leading the pack let's say in SAS again. >> Well, this narrative of the SAS apocalypse was totally overdone. I mean, this whole SAS is dead narrative is just getting shredded today with Salesforce being up over 20%. You could go back and look at some of the clips I've been saying now for months. I do not believe that core systems of record like CRM are
[00:18:18] going to get ripped and replaced with something vibe coded. I've been saying that for a long time. Enterprises want certainty. They have compliance. They want professionally managed software that's been running and debugged for years. I mean, just think about all the bug reports that have been filed against Salesforce for over 20 years, right? And that's the hard part to get right. I mean, when I play with all these agents
[00:18:40] and AI, you're dealing with something that's probabistic and there's so many edge cases. When you're dealing with a core system of record, you just want to know that it works. And the expense of it is low enough that you just don't want to basically jeopardize one of your core systems by ripping it out and replacing it with something built in-house in a kind of DIY way. So, I I just think this whole SAS apocalypse
[00:19:01] narrative was overplayed. Now, at the same time, to your point, Jason, I think Beni off is doing all the right things here. And you could kind of say it's a if you can't beat them, join them type approach, which is he made this deal with Anthropic. What is that deal? I mean, first of all, he's going to be offering Anthropics models inside of Salesforce. More importantly, I think this is really the critical thing. He is integrating
[00:19:25] Salesforce into Claude. He's willing to allow Claude to be the front end to have the sort of the primary user relationship. and Claude is now going to be able to access all of the data in Salesforce and all of the workflows, all the actions that a user can take. So, in other words, Beni off here is willing to risk disintermediation in order to ride this AI wave because he knows it's what the customer ultimately
[00:19:54] wants. You know, you don't want to go into Salesforce or any SAS application to write your agents. you want to create agents in the AI program that you're using and you want those agents to be able to run across all of your SAS platforms. So he's willing to again to give up a big piece of the user relationship in order to make himself more relevant. Now why is this ultimately good for his business and not bad is because like I said I still think
[00:20:20] that you need systems of record. You need the AI agents to basically go to those systems get the data from a canonical source of truth. You just don't want there to be any probabilistic variability around that and you want AI agents to be able to write back to those systems and you want to be able to write back to those workflows. So what's happening here is that it's not a rip and replace. They're layers are getting
[00:20:44] built, right? You've got the database layer, then you've got applications and workflows and then you've got agents and then you've kind of got the the AI uh user interface. And Betty off is saying that the AI is now the user interface. He's basically acknowledging that he's leaning into it. Now, here's the thing. I talked to him this morning actually and and a point he brought up with me that I think is underestimated
[00:21:10] is that he says there's a lot of trap value in Salesforce. Meaning, we know it's got this incredibly broadrich platform with tons of functionality. The average user is never going to find all those things, but the agent will. So, think about all the cases where now the agent is going to go to the user and say, "Hey, I just saw that there are these actions you could take in Salesforce that seem to line up with
[00:21:31] what you're telling me to do. Do you want me to do this?" And the user is going to say, "Yes, >> modify Salesforce as the system of record." Yes, sir. >> Yes. Exactly. Because now think about the agent as a power user of Salesforce that knows how to use Salesforce perfectly. You don't necessarily need to hire this like team of highly priced consultants to figure out Salesforce. The agent knows how to do it. So it can
[00:21:56] unlock the full value of Salesforce and all these actions. And then after you develop trust in your agent, you the user are just going to click the always allow button and now the agent can basically tap the full capabilities of Salesforce. So I mean that's where this is headed. But now it raises the question, okay, so how do SAS applications play into this AI and agent wave? You have to have great APIs and you have to have a great CLI, the
[00:22:23] command line interface, which is how the agents are going to relate to the SAS tools. I think in the past, the way that most SAS products thought, they spent a lot of time on their user interface. And now they really got to think about the agent interface, not just user interface. You have to build the best agent interface. And you've got to, I think, relax the idea that you're going to fully control the customer
[00:22:45] relationship. You have to think of agents created by the AI companies as being an extension of your platform and not feel threatened that you're losing the customer relationship. If you can do all those things and become a source of truth and a system of record, then you've got a big opportunity. I I got to say he's like one of the most underestimated and underappreciated product and sales executives in our industry because I was talking to him
[00:23:10] when we were at Davos Sachs about Slack and he was like tell me about what you're doing and I was like listen you have all my data I can't get my data my team wants to move off Slack they want to use this open source product specifically so I can get all this information he again to your point freeberg put me on with the sales team and now I have complete god access to our Slack Slack and they built a product
[00:23:32] called Slack today which they've been slowly rolling out and it does the promise of OpenClaw and what Sam did by buying out the founder of OpenClaw right after he bought OpenClaw's founder Peter and he started working at uh Open AI just openclaw just faded like no more innovation and I'm not trying to say this to say Sam did something nefarious or that Open Claw is you know terrible or anything but they just lost their
[00:23:59] edge. And now the version of Slack today is like a seven out of 10 and it's getting like 10% better every couple of weeks I'm noticing. So he's going to do a parallel link sacks. He's going to have his own agents and he's going to let you come in with your agents. His agents might be a little bit behind but you're also going to get those agents for free inside of Salesforce. It's like a a two ways to win, you I mean, look, I think I
[00:24:22] think that SAS products can offer their own agents and they can offer their own AI and co-pilots and all that, but I think the reality is is that most of the action with agents is going to happen outside those products and simply want to interact with those products and basically get the data from them, use them as the system of record, as the source of truth and then write actions back to them when appropriate. And I
[00:24:48] just think that founders should lean into that trend instead of fighting it because if you fight to stay in control and say that only our agents are the way to interact with our system then people will just move to they'll leave. >> So are you are you long vertical SAS or are you short it like Freeberg and I are. >> I think it's specific to the company and what its modes are and how good a system of record is and all those things.
[00:25:10] >> Well is no I don't think vertical SAS has a system of record. I don't think that's what they do. I think their workflows this is the key point where these horizontal monolithic companies like Salesforce are just unique workday Oracle with respect to their GL it's just very difficult SAP IFS it's very difficult to see a path where you can replicate these businesses and they become the repository and the single source of
[00:25:33] truth as you said but vertical SAS is workflows and it's a process and I just wonder what survives >> well I look I think it's a it's a good question and I think It's case by case, but look, just a few months ago, everyone was saying that horizontal SAS wasn't going to survive. And one of Liupold's major positions in that fund was to short all these SAS products, including Salesforce. And what we've seen is that has turned out to be wrong
[00:25:59] or totally over. >> To be to be fair, I don't know that he understood the difference between vertical and horizontal SAS because that was a funding short problem, meaning he had to go to the big stocks in order to be able to short enough to be able to get the leverage that he wanted. So, I think he may have just worked backwards from his own mental narrative to make it all sound correct, but I suspect it was
[00:26:21] a leverage trap where he's like, I need to be really massively net long these other names. And his prime broker is like, well, you got to find shorts, liquid shorts, and he's like, okay, Adobe and Salesforce. >> Well, but look, I mean, to be fair, I think that was the dominant narrative as of just a few months ago with SAS Apocalypse, and Benoff's stock was getting hammered by the market. I mean down 50% now it's up back 20. So I think
[00:26:44] a lot of people were just indiscriminately selling all SAS. And I think that if I had to say there's like one takeaway from the news today is that I think simple extrapolations of the future based on these trends don't work out right the simple extrapolation here was AI agents can code therefore all software is going to zero. That was the simplistic extrapolation. Now what we're seeing is no actually there are certain systems of
[00:27:12] record that are extremely compatible and complimentary to AI agents and if they're positioned right by their founders they can lean into this trend. And by the way I think the job loss narrative is another one of those simplistic extrapolations. What is the the job loss narrative is now AI can do knowledge work therefore knowledge workers are all going to lose their jobs. It completely ignores the fact that there's ways for knowledge workers
[00:27:34] to take advantage of the tools and lean into it. So the same way that Beni off is taking advantage of the agent trend, knowledge workers are taking advantage of it and they're going to be able to lean into it. >> If you adopt the technology, you survive. If you don't, you die. I mean, it's pretty pretty straightforward. I just wanted to also point out with Nvidia's incredible results. Two things that happen very quietly. Um, and Jensen
[00:27:56] is clearly open- source maxing now. He bought Hugging Face for 12 billion. And he did like one of these aqua hire deals with Poolside for 6 billion total, about 20 billion in um 20 billion in acquisitions, which is far less than 1% of the market cap of Nvidia. And thank God you can do M&A again in this country. But he's now owning the distribution layer for open-source. Uh if you don't know Poolside, they make
[00:28:26] the uh coding model Laguna. So now Nvidia has the place where developers and hackers go to figure out which open >> Sorry. Sorry. I don't I don't think that's what went over. My understanding is that the because Jason Warner tweeted this morning about a new model drop. I I I was confused by this because I they there could be two things that they're buying. the 100 engineers that are going over to Nvidia, they could be working on
[00:28:54] uh what poolside has, which is effectively a version of cursor and cloud code that runs, you know, on prem that runs in >> open source open weight. >> No, then they also have a model. What I'm saying is they have a model and then they also have this agent harness that that you can direct coding. So, I don't it wasn't clear to me in the announcement. I didn't read it carefully. Yeah. >> What it is that they bought.
[00:29:15] >> I think we're kind of burying the lead here by the way. It's like, look, they're reportedly doing these deals with Poolside and Hugging Face, and those are big open source acquisitions if the reporting is true. But look, here is the the lead today, I think, is that first of all, Nvidia had a blowout quarter doing over 100% year-over-year. >> A billion a day in revenue now. >> Yeah. Almost 100 billion in revenue just
[00:29:37] for the quarter. $60 billion of profit. 75% gross margins. I mean, excluding one-off items, this was the most profit ever generated by a company in history. J, let me just underscore what you said in the intro. Yeah. >> Which is really I think the reason why the stock is up 8% today is not just the great quarter, but the fact that they guided to 70% growth next year, whereas the street was only expecting around
[00:30:04] 45%. So that's pretty amazing. And that 70% number would have been higher, but they said they were supply constraint. >> Yes. >> So, you know, what what is the takeaway? I think for the larger market here, it is that the AI boom is continuing. The other narrative that's getting shredded today is that this AI capex is a bubble. It's basically going to end very soon. And what Nvidia is basically saying with its numbers and forecasts is actually