[00:27:17] logically to it and you and you deliver a win. And we did the same thing with the space program, you know, in the in the in the 1960s. Well, now all of those national labs and all and really honestly a lot of the facilities within NASA are doing lots of little things for existence. Um and some of them are relevant to the mission and some are not. And when you try and do something, you know, glorious now, you have to try
[00:27:40] and repurpose those resources that are super entrenched and they don't want to necessarily move. And then, of course, you have Congress that's protecting their programs. China is literally doing what we are do what we did, you know, in the in the ' 40s and 60s and saying, we're going to, hey, we're going to go after fusion, um, or we're going to work on next generation fifth gen nuclear reactors. We're going to build sixthgen
[00:27:58] fighter jets. And they put the facilities where they belong with the right people and resources. There's no baggage. and they have this incredible second mover advantage and they're able to get things done at lightning speeds because they don't have all that drag and we have a lot of drag and again it's not just NASA it's it's governmentwide and do you think there's a way to fix it without Congress or is the only way to
[00:28:20] fix it without Congress meaning there needs to be no Congress if we have a shot at fixing this and there needs to be a different governing model. Yeah. You know, look, I I think the uh I think this is this is why I I absolutely support the the president that, you know, despite all I I mean, I my single largest political donation ever was to was to President Trump in this uh you know, to support his inauguration. It's
[00:28:46] why I got charged up with uh you know, with Elon assembling the Doge team is like we do have to shrink the government. We do have to get rid of all these inefficiencies, these the waste and the distractions from the mission, things that we don't need every taxpayer contributing to and actually concentrate those dollars, real dollars, on the things that the taxpayers should be fighting for. And when you do that, you
[00:29:07] know what, like 20 billion or 25 billion is actually a lot of money. And you know, and I know like it's it's a super tough budget environment right now. And people people hate change, but I'm always surprised when like a million is not a million anymore and a billion is not a billion because you do an awful awful lot with that. So, if there was ever a time to get this done, uh it's now with President Trump with when he
[00:29:28] has the House and the Senate behind him and and I'm not surprised that there is frustration from from people that were really passionate um and and and are still passionate when uh when this much time goes by and we're not able to get those things done that we thought we we'd be able to. So, NASA's budget last year, $25 billion. Break it down for us. How is that money being spent? what are the dimensions upon which you
[00:29:52] would kind of categorize that budget? Um, and we'll talk about kind of what's going forward. Yeah, I mean, look, I I think an incredibly large portion of it is with human space flight and uh and specifically uh the Aremis program and SLS and it's a lot of billions going to a disposable rocket. It is billions that when I you're talking so I mean I think it's like five or 600% overrun to build the mobile launcher 2 for the next
[00:30:22] generation SLS. So sorry just tell us what SLS is for the audience. That's the space launch system I think or it's uh they also call it the Senate launch system I think and uh it's spread across um a lot of dollars are spread across some key states. Well just to give you an idea so SLS is just repurposed shuttle hardware. So, uh, and I don't blame anyone for putting us down this path because at the time you did not
[00:30:48] have Blue Origin or SpaceX or any of these other commercial companies doing the things that are doing today, but they were like, "Let's, uh, let's take the shuttle program parts and put into a program called Constellation, and let's take the Constellation parts and put it in a program called uh, SLS." And and essentially, again, it's the it's it's it's it's the same shuttle motors. It's the same solid rocket boosters. You're
[00:31:09] basically taking the tank and putting Orion on top of it. Orion is 20 years old, by the way. It hasn't flown humans yet. And it's incredibly expensive and very disposable, but it creates a lot of jobs in certain states and um and it's like at some and look, there's enough hardware now to fly a couple missions and make sure you beat China back to the moon. But but you can't be stuck on this forever. This is literally the
[00:31:28] equivalency, by the way, of taking P-51 Mustangs from World War II and using them in Desert Storm because uh we got to keep the plants open. And that obviously makes no no logical sense whatsoever for factories that are making this stuff that used to make landing ships in World War II that made Saturn rocket that pivoted to shuttle to SLS and now to believe that you can't make another pivot is is kind of crazy and
[00:31:50] the right thing you should pivot towards honestly is nuclear. I want to just talk about the the Trump budget proposal for NASA. So this is the NASA budget over the history of NASA. And the proposed budget would basically create the lowest budget since 1961. So they're proposing to reduce the overall budget from 25 billion a year down to 19 billion a year. Were you part of the conversation on building this budget? And then I'll highlight some of
[00:32:22] the features of this budget here in a moment. But did did you um have conversations with the administration as this was being put together and some of these proposals were being considered? I mean, how how deep have you gone in this? No, you know, when you're a nominee, you're actually kept in the dark on a lot of things. Um you do get briefed on everything that's going on with every center, you know, every major
[00:32:41] program, things that senators could ask you about from a um from like a one-on-one perspective, but you're not given access to sensitive information. you almost need some deniability when you're talking to senators on that or else your nominations could get held up really big time. So, I wasn't aware I honestly uh I was voted out of committee, you know, uh the commerce committee by um you know, Senator Cruz and and you know, 18 other it was 19
[00:33:05] senators in total. And the next day, the skinny budget came out. And if that skinny budget had come out uh you know again a day or two earlier I would I would never have made it out of committee because obviously as as I think is playing out right now both sides of the aisle are not happy about the you know the budget. Okay. So, in this budget, there's a proposal to cancel SLS and Orion, terminate numerous robotic science missions, including the
[00:33:33] Mars sample return mission. Mhm. Um, probes to Venus, and several future space telescopes. And it represents the White House's desire to end the development of a nuclear thermal rocket engine. I guess having scrutinized this budget, how do you react to what you see being proposed? And does it solve what you've identified as some of the challenges in NASA? Or are those more management challenges? Does budget create a constraining force here that
[00:34:00] fixes some of the issues with respect to focus and concentration of capital into the right projects for from your point of view? Yeah, it's a it's a it's an excellent question. So So first, like look, the the the reduction the big budget reduction is a great forcing function for change. And I know there's a lot of people that probably don't want to don't want to hear that, but uh it is true. That doesn't mean I would have
[00:34:22] landed at 19 billion in this whole thing, but I fully support uh the president and uh with the goal of shrinking the budget and and and and getting back to responsible footing and I do think billions can go a very long way. So uh I will just start with that. I I everything you just said directionally is is is kind of in the right direction. We've already got paid for enough SLS hardware that if you were to terminate for convenience now, you
[00:34:45] got enough to launch like two or three of them. It's enough to get you back to the moon, check that box to make sure that you don't have any economic or scientific or national security reasons to stay on the moon and and put your energy much more towards um commercial industry. Look, nuclear thermal uh propulsion I'm not a fan of. I like nuclear electric. Nuclear thermal to test it, you're spewing radioactive
[00:35:05] debris here on Earth. It's not going to go over well to anyone and it doesn't really solve your refueling problem. you still need to top it off with hydrogen in space if you want a reusable space plug. So I don't like that either. And and it's subscale. It's it's a fact. It's a program that sits in a lab forever. Like what you need in nuclear electric I'm passionate on the subject is you you need us to get back to the
[00:35:25] good old days. Like we went from the atomic bomb in 1945 to laying the keel on the nautilus in 1951. Five six years. We didn't keep it in a lab forever. We said, you know what, we're going to do big bold things. And that's what we need to be doing with uh in space with when it comes to uh to nuclear. Look, a lot of the science programs I'm huge fans of Mars sample return. The best thing to do is when the astronauts get there to
[00:35:47] bring the samples home. Why would we spend billions to send a robotic mission? We can put that into commercial industry and accelerate their timeline. So, I'm not I I wasn't a fan of a pure robotic mission on that one. And you know, a lot of the big science programs I want to see James Webs and Hubble telescope programs launching annually, if not more. Um, flagship programs definitionally are billion dollar spends
[00:36:10] and if you spend a billion then you got to get it right and that means lots of requirements and and and we can't take unnecessary risk and a billion becomes a three billion program and it's never on time. Like we should be challenging the best and brightest. Give me 10 $100 million missions a year. Let's try that and let's accept that three fail and get act you know I was going to introduce like time to science as a KPI like how
[00:36:32] why don't why do we accept things taking 10 years when they could be a year even the decal process of of prioritizing scientific missions over a 10-year span is kind of insane 100% 100% and I I think a lot of people hear budget cuts and I I hear this on the NIH side as well now that the administration and budget cutting is going to take lives people going lose lives. We're going to lose science. This is an anti-science
[00:36:57] agenda. But the if you can get more efficient with how you deploy capital and how you manage the deployment of that capital and the utilization of that capital, you actually accelerate science. You accelerate outcomes and you improve the condition and the prosperity for humanity and for America. And it's completely a misdirected statement when people say that a budget cut is an anti-science movement. It's about
[00:37:22] finding the right places so that you get more outcomes and redeploy in a smarter, more efficient way. It drives me nuts. I just see it, you know, all over uh right now. That's just I mean it's just politics. I do think overfunding leads to complacency, leads to bureaucracy, which actually leads to a slowdown in discovery, a slowdown in invention, a slowdown in progress. Anyway, I'm sorry for my rant. I agree. Look, as I mean,
[00:37:45] as entrepreneurs, we know like some of our probably best decision-m is always when we were running low on cash. So, um, you know, it kind of drives efficiency and, uh, it is a, you know, necessity, mother of all invention there. Yeah. Look, I think that's just a product of some of our and I'm not familiar with any of the NIH or and I'm I'm not pretending to go deep on that at all. Just I do think this is kind of a
[00:38:02] product of of of the politics of our time. It's a very divided country. You know, people have to take an opposing view and and and go to extremes. People will die over over this. But the government is terrible capital allocators. Come on. We should all know that. And you know we should as taxpayers we should be contributing to the things that no one else is willing to do where there is no good business use case or or economic model you know
[00:38:23] it is in you know if competition is working they can solve a lot of problems and we should put our energy to what they won't solve. Um and and look I think Katzios by the way in science he's a great leader. I I've spoken to him a bunch of times. Um you know he he's not a quag. He doesn't think wild things like that. He he wants you know the golden age of science and discovery. I'm fair. Yeah. Good science. Yeah.
[00:38:44] Absolutely. Well, let's talk about Artemis. I think this is a big piece that that the American public doesn't fully gro that we have this effort and maybe you can just lay out for us the case for Artemis. Lay out for us the case for Mars. Tell us about the relationship between the two and the timelines. Sure. And why Yeah. Why are we doing them? Let's just say I I am in the return to the moon camp. doesn't mean like uh you know I and I'm I know
[00:39:12] that you know Elon is very focused on on Mars and he has a lot of great reasons why including just the survival of our species. I mean the long term it is the right move. I remember um during my hearing uh one senator was really grilling me a lot of like what really what's the difference between you know moon and Mars and uh you know isn't moons a stepping stone. I'm like well one's a planet you know and uh you know
[00:39:34] it has an atmosphere and if you looked at the moon it doesn't look pretty. I mean, it's getting beat up all the time. It has no protection from, you know, from solar radiation. So, reality is like you should go to the moon if it because for 35 years we said we were going to. And I think that's very important. You know, we it's it's it's very late in the game to say, well, we did it in the 60s and early 70s. You
[00:39:56] know, that would have been the fine position to state the entire time that we've done it and we're moving on. But we didn't. For 35 years, we said we're going back and we spent over a hundred billion of taxpayer dollars saying we were going to do it. And for us not to be able to do it now and watch China do it. Like I said, it's it signals a far greater disease across our our government and and how our system
[00:40:17] operates. And I don't think we want that reckoning. So look, we paid for the hardware anyway. We let's let's go back, but let's parallel going to Mars. So that's what Artemis is really about. I mean, you can say Artemis is about Mars, too, but that's like 100 years down the line. And like I said, it's a giant disposable rocket program that repurposes shuttle hardware. It's incredibly expensive. We signed up a lot
[00:40:35] of international partners to support it because we like collecting flags. Um, and it doesn't necessarily always mean that what they're contributing to is in the best interest of the program. Case in point, you know, we had, you know, gateway man like this is going down a rabbit hole of a lot of things because of the shortcomings of the vehicle, but it's expensive. It's disposable. it is not the way to do uh affordable,
[00:40:56] repeatable, efficient exploration whether it's to moon, Mars or anywhere else. So let's get it done and then focus on the on the right way to go about doing this so that we're not seeing people walk on the moon every 5 years or something crazy that it's happening all the time which is what we get excited about. What is there to do on the moon? Why should we go back? What is the purpose? I think, you know, it's
[00:41:17] it's it's almost like a, you know, if you're going to go and commit yourself uh take risks in a in a conflict, you know, you want clear objectives. And in my mind, again, aside from the fact that the hardware is already essentially purchased, it's clear objectives. Is there any economic, scientific, or national security reasons to be here? And I don't think we can say that conclusively right now that that there
[00:41:37] are none. and China is going uh and if they were to find something even a small probability a 1% let's just say hypothetically it's helium 3 and and they're going to usher in a new form of power. Think about how many conflicts that we've had over the last century over uh over sources of power over energy. Do we want to get that one wrong? And and are we willing to take a 1% chance and and that could shift the
[00:42:02] balance of power here on Earth? I don't think so. And we said we were going to do it for 35 years and we and we spent 100 billion of taxpayer money. Like I said, the hardware is there. But I think you do it. You make those determinations. Is there scientific, economic or national security reason to be here? And if not, you move on. And if companies like Blue Origin and SpaceX and even Rocket Lab are successful with
[00:42:20] their vehicles, you're going to have like the optionality to go to the moon. It's not the Delta V is a negligible difference between whether you're going to the moon or Mars. And we should colonize Mars. We should build a colony on Mars. I think we need to go there. Um and by going there it is a it is the first step on a far grander journey you know and uh you know I I I you know Elon is obviously very passionate about it