[00:00:00] Jared Isaacman was nominated by President Trump to become the 15th administrator of NASA in December. He passed out of the Senate committee in May and was set to be confirmed by the full Senate this week. However, on Friday, President Trump withdrew his nomination for Isaacman. We asked Jared to sit down with us for a conversation. We dive into everything. his experiences as a successful entrepreneur, fighter
[00:00:23] jet pilot, commander of the world's first all civilian space flight and the first civilian to conduct a spacew walk. What he saw in his six months studying NASA. How American government bureaucracy has eroded its performance and puts the nation at risk in the great space race underway with China. And what really happened? Was it a discovery about prior donations to Democratic candidates or an association with Elon
[00:00:48] Musk that lost him the nomination? Here's my conversation with Jared Isaacman. All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. Jared, welcome. I, like many space
[00:01:14] enthusiasts, was thrilled for your nomination to lead NASA as the 15th administrator of the agency. Founded in 1958, the year after the Russians put Sputnik into orbit, NASA's perhaps, in my opinion, the US government's most pioneering agency, having organized and led our exploration missions to the moon, Mars, the outer solar system, and beyond, as well as the launch of important scientific missions to observe
[00:01:42] the Earth, to observe our solar system, and the deep universe, and of course, the installation and operation of the ISS. and you seemed really qualified for the job as uh a business manager, a successful entrepreneur, a flight and space enthusiast. So, I'm really curious to hear your views on NASA, the space industry overall, the race with China, and frankly hear a little bit about what the heck just happened with your
[00:02:10] nomination. A lot of people have a lot of questions that we'd love to hear your point of view on. So, I thank you for joining me today, Jared. I'm thrilled to be here to chat. And as a someone who's been a space enthusiast since kindergarten, whether it's through the lens of commercial space or, you know, the great space race from the 1960s or NASA today, like these are all subjects I get pretty charged up about. So, love
[00:02:33] to chat about what inspired you to get into space. You went to Embry Riddle Aeronautical University and you later became an entrepreneur, but were you always kind of obsessed with space and did you always dream of doing what you got to do last year, which is walk in space? Yeah, so the this is all my parents fault. They um they skimped out on a babysitter as a kid and just put me in front of the TV. So, uh, I was watching movies like
[00:03:00] Top Gun, uh, The Rights Stuff, um, Space Camp, the movie, you know, 1980s movie where if you go to Space Camp, a robot's going to launch you into space. This was all stuff in like my elementary school year. So, um, I mean, I told I just showed it to my kids last week, by the way. So funny that you say that. I I pulled up Space Camp. I had to buy it because it's not on any of the streaming services to show it to my kids. Yeah.
[00:03:22] Okay. I've been to Space Camp to like speak to the students a number of times and I ask them like, "All right, raise your hands if you've seen the movie Space Camp here and know who Jinx is and like no one raises their hands and that just goes to show I'm I'm old." So, so you were always into it. Is is that what you wanted to do to work in aeronautical engineering or as a pilot or what were you thinking of doing? Yeah, I mean so
[00:03:45] kind of interesting start to the story. I mean I um I started my day job which is shift for you know it's a it's a pretty large large fintech now when I was 16 and I was just like most you know as you know entrepreneurs you're you're burning yourself out waking up on the keyboard and you know I said I need a hobby in life uh so I picked up my passion for flying and I I I basically had parallel careers you know in
[00:04:08] aviation and in and in business and I started flying air shows in uh in 2010 and 2011. 11 and I was flying with a bunch of really talented ex-military, even current military pilots and they were like, you know, you could fly in the, you know, in the Air National Guard or the reserves and um and I found out, well, wow, that's amazing. You can fly fighter jets part-time and serve the country. You need a college degree. I
[00:04:31] never had one cuz I I started my business at 16. So, that's actually why I went back to why I went back to school, went to Embry Riddle because it's a I mean, it's an aviation school. Uh I think it graduates um more Air Force pilots every year than the Air Force Academy. But anyway, that that's ultimately why I I got my degree. But my my pursuits kind of in parallel of of business and aviation has existed, you
[00:04:51] know, really since I was a teenager. So you're running this business. So Shift 4, just for those who are listening, is a payment processing company that is a public company today, $8.5 billion market cap. So you've built an incredible business. And then on the side, my understanding is you've flown like 7,000 hours in fighter jets and you've tried to beat the circumnavigation record a couple of times now. So, were you kind of going to
[00:05:20] work and then on the weekends flying? I mean, how did you kind of balance running a company trying to do that today while balancing this podcast? I can tell you it's really hard to do that and anything else. It's like how did you how did you do that? Well, I mean, you know, again, I started my business at 16. I started flying a couple years after that. You know, this is before you have a, you know, a family and other
[00:05:42] responsibilities. So, like literally all I was doing was working and flying. Mostly flying at night, which was great. You know, I did that around the world record flight. Didn't get it in 08. Broke it broke that record in09. We did it to raise funds for Makea-Wish Foundation, which was which was cool. And it was a great challenge. And then, um, later on started flying air shows, which was great. And you know, we did a
[00:06:03] lot to raise money for Make a Wish there. And then we we kind of took uh the air show flying, which was just maximum fun, super adrenaline, and was like, we're we're doing loops and rolls to music, you know, 10 ft off the ground, 18 in between our wings. We probably should pivot this to something that keeps the fun factor up, but has some commercial intent, also helps the country. So, we started a a defense company called Draen. We w up assembling
[00:06:27] the world's largest fleet of fighter jets, jets just like this behind me. And we were professional bad guys for the Department of Defense, the Air Force. Like we would fly as aggressors just like in Top Gun replicating Russian and Chinese Iranian tactics. I literally I mean I remember at Christmas parties in you know 2014 2015 speaking to the to the workforce I was like I hope you all know next to commercial space and what
[00:06:50] Elon's doing at SpaceX. This is the second coolest company. Like we get to be professional bad guys all the time. It was awesome. So I again I've had two awesome parallel careers. Um, but hey, running two companies like nothing compared to Elon. I think I I can't even He's got to be up to like a half a dozen CEO titles uh in parallel right now. Not to mention trying to save the, you know, the country um you know uh and get it
[00:07:11] back on a good fiscal footing. So, it's my my responsibilities are pale in comparison. Well, so when did you first meet Elon and how did you meet him? So, it's interesting and I almost like guarantee you wouldn't uh remember it. Uh after well, first I think like in early 2000. So, I started my fintech in 1999. I actually think we were on like the same like uh old uh it was like a TV show being interviewed um in the early
[00:07:35] 2000s and we that was probably the first handshake. It was after we set the uh we broke actually the uh I'm sorry we didn't break the record. This was in 2008 the around the world record. We came up short. Peter Demanis, Dr. De Manis reached out and um asked if uh if I wanted to go to Bikenor and see a Soyuse launch with some of the uh kind of early commercial space pioneers. I remember, you know, all the Google
[00:07:57] founders were on that TU154, you know, Russian transport. I'm like, man, if if this thing goes down, you're you're wiping out a lot of like a lot of brain power here because Sergey Larry, Eric Schmidt was on it. And that that was um it was coming back from that. I think there was a charity poker event or something at Elon's house in um it was early days of of Tesla. So, I think I met him again there, but but
[00:08:21] really we you know, like we don't know each other that well. I've only spoken to him, you know, a couple dozen times maybe over the years and almost entirely related to my commercial space missions, Inspiration 4 and Plaston. Oh, so you're not like super close with him because I think there's this narrative that you and Elon have a secret, you know, deep connection and he's one of your best friends. And you know, that's kind of
[00:08:41] like how how your hearing went when I look on the some of the video clips of how some of the senators were treating you. They're like, "Oh, you're you're doing this all for Elon. He's your best friend." Yeah, you know, the sen I think almost every one of the senators on both sides of the aisle made that assumption and asked a lot of questions on that. And I said, look, I Elon is one of the most accomplished, if not the most
[00:09:00] accomplished entrepreneur in modern history. Every one of his companies sets out to solve some of the greatest engineering problems for all humankind. Even his, you know, kind of super selfless service to the to the government of trying getting us back on, again, like I said, sound fiscal footing. Um, I admire a lot of what he does, but but honestly, and I told the senators, my connection is I I I paid his company to go to space twice. And
[00:09:23] look, if there was more than just SpaceX out there offering the service and you had competition, I probably would have paid less. Like, it's like, so if anything, I'm very pro competition in this regard. And uh, you know, I don't consider myself beholden to Elon at all. I want to see all of commercial space succeed. I'm I'm a huge space enthusiast. Let's go through that. So, you met Elon. Did you get involved as an
[00:09:42] investor in SpaceX along the way? How did the inspiration 4 mission come to be? In uh 2020, uh I did hear that, you know, SpaceX was doing another one of its secondary rounds and I was connected through, you know, I think it was city and I w up speaking to the CFO at uh at SpaceX and he's like, "No, look, the you know, funding round is closed and um you know, we're kind of pretty selective on on who we let in." I was like, "Okay,
[00:10:08] great. Well, hey, you know, back in 2008, I actually got the uh the first offer to pilot the first Dragon spacecraft, which is wild to think about, like 2008. And um even if I can't be an investor, you know, at some point or another, I'd love to have an opportunity. And he was like, well, can't be an investor now, but we could talk about uh a human spaceflight mission. And I had no idea I was going to have an opportunity to be the first.
[00:10:34] I assumed there was a lot of people in front. And um man, it was uh what a privilege to be able to do that. Um be part of mission design and select a crew of inspiring individuals and raise a quarter of a billion dollars for St. Jude. And it was just a successful mission. It helped open the door for a lot of other commercial missions to come. So awesome experience. So in 2021, you commanded inspiration 4, which was
[00:10:55] the first all civilian space flight using the SpaceX Crew Dragon. Yep. And that was just truly like a momentous mission. It was just so beautiful to watch. And I remember it was also like a tough year because it was a year after co. So it was so great to see that happening. But I had assumed and I think a lot of people had assumed that you were like a big investor in SpaceX or really tight. But it just happened
[00:11:19] within a a one and a half year or year period that you kind of went from, hey, I'd love to put some money into SpaceX to, oh, I can participate and command inspiration for and get out there into space. Like that's a year and a half days. Like I like literally from that phone call in, you know, October, um, Inspiration 4 was born. A week or two later, we did a like a ceremonial signing at the uh at the Crew One
[00:11:48] launch, which is wild, too. And it speaks to the confidence of SpaceX that they were ready to sign up for the first commercial, like the first civilian mission to orbit before they even returned operational capability uh for human space flight to NASA. Now, they did demo two, of course, with with Bob and Doug, but crew 1 had not flown when SpaceX said, "We're going to get this done." And then 10 months later, we were
[00:12:14] in orbit, and it was an incredible experience. And obviously, we followed it up with a whole development program with Polaris and um and flew a second mission as well. So, yeah. So, just going back, you said you were made, you were given an offer to pilot a Crew Dragon in ' 08. Is that correct? When did that how did that happen? So it was it was right after I came back from that around the world flight and again I said
[00:12:38] you know Dr. Dmanis reached out and uh we met in the city and he was like you seem to be like kind of thinking the way we think uh in in terms of you know a more exciting future in transportation and and aerospace. Now of course his interests cover everything from like human life extension to he likes to solve a lot of world problems too. Yeah. And it was through those connections and coming out to Bikenor that I did get that uh I did get
[00:13:02] that offer. I still have the agreement. It was funny. I uh I showed it to some of the SpaceX folks when we were talking about Inspiration 4, but yeah. Amazing. Yeah. Just knocked on the door every now and then and got lucky in 2020. Um it was certainly through the approach of trying to be an investor, but it it revisited old conversations and moved very quickly. Kind of funny that a banker called you from city and that led
[00:13:23] to you. Oh, I called the banker. Oh, you called the banker. They called the banker trying to get the the a contact uh like a a recent contact and that's uh that's that's like hook me up. I want to get in. That's crazy. Yeah. Okay. So then you said hey that was a successful mission. You had obviously a good relationship with SpaceX and the operations team there I'm assuming and you said hey I'd like to come back and
[00:13:47] like Polaris dawn was formed at that time or did that come together later just for the audience. So last what was it September you were the first private citizen in human history to perform a spacew walk which again another incredible moment and you know I think it was inspiring for people who realized at that moment that perhaps you didn't need to become an astronaut to be able to walk in space. I mean it was really
[00:14:14] just incredible. But how did the continuation go from inspiration 4 to Polaris dawn? Yeah and I I loved it. I mean, Plaston was filled with we crammed so many really incredible objectives in five days uh on top of about 40 science experiments. It was an awesome mission. I'd love to tell you about it. And and you know, but uh yeah, so when we came back from Inspiration 4, I thought we checked the box on every objective. I
[00:14:39] mean, we navigated the whole, you know, billionaire in in space thing, which at the time with, you know, some of the other, you know, missions that were going off was um was attracting a lot of a lot of heat and really focused it on trying to to do good in the world that, you know, we can make progress in space and try and, you know, make the, you know, mother earth a better place. And we focused on raising a lot of money for
[00:15:00] St. Jude. And um and anyway, like we did and we did three days of science and research experiments. It felt really good and we were a little bit short on our uh on our um you know our fundraising goal for uh St. Jude. I mean we we set out to raise over $200 million. We wound up raising $250 million but we were a little short and we came back and I was like man we almost got everything done and then Elon sent a tweet right after Splashdown. 40
[00:15:25] minutes after Splashdown and he said put me in for 50 million. And he already had put in five and we we we exceeded our goal and I was like man we got everything done. We set the bar high. Maybe this is it. And um it was a couple weeks later that I was invited to go to Starbase. Uh this was the second time I went. This was like October of 21. And we sat down with a number of folks including Elon. And we talked about, you
[00:15:52] know, doing a um like a developmental program where we actually can build things and test things that hadn't been done in a while. And I remember Elon, he's like, "We we can build a suit. I know exactly how I would do it. and let's go up really high, you know, let's get past the Gemini 11 record, go farther into space than anyone's gone since we last walked on the moon because it's it's different. It's hard and we're