[00:53:53] Elon is advocating gets cut? Is it diametrically opposed philosophical points of view on the role of government? What is the root anti- Elon sentiment? that is kind of on the other side of the equation here. Do you think I mean I think that the uh the people overwhelmingly voted for the president to go in and shrink the government and bring about change and get rid of fraud, waste and abuse of which I am a thousand% behind the president and I I
[00:54:19] believe that that's what you know Elon and Doge was working towards. But people also hate change. Like we all know this and um you know people can uh be very protective of their empire and you know when somebody comes in you know Elon's got a playbook and I think he knows how to get things done. And I and I I think you know in a lot of respects that um that rub some people or you know what I think that was one of you know or um had
[00:54:42] some axes to grind. I don't know. And uh and um you know we're just waiting. I I I don't I you know I don't want to speculate on all this but yeah. No, I mean, um, I think that that you've said enough and I I guess you've seen the tweets from Elon today where he was pretty negative about the House bill that is being labeled the big beautiful bill, making the case that it's actually going to drive up a government deficit to over two trillion,
[00:55:16] two half trillion dollars a year. It doesn't make deep enough cuts. There's a lot of pork in there, a lot of wasteful spending in there. And then the House Speaker today responded to Elon saying, "Hey, we've still got a recision bill coming. We've still got an appropriation bill coming where we're going to start to fix the budget." But clearly Elon is now getting vocal about his point of view on this. Have you spoken with him
[00:55:39] at all about what's going on and government spending and his kind of take on things as he's walked out of the office there? Well, you know, as you know, I kind of mentioned, I told the Senate, too, like I've only spoken to Elon, you know, I don't know, a couple dozen times, most of which related to human space flight missions, but when I was talking to him towards the end of last year, it it was all on government
[00:55:59] efficiency related programs. And I think Elon got a lot of people excited about Doge u by making like one simple point. The interest rate on the national debt exceeds, you know, the DoD budget. that's scary and it's getting worse and we can't spend our way out of this problem. Um, which we've grown a habit to doing and I know he's very passionate about it and um, you know, he sacrificed a lot along with all the others you know
[00:56:24] at Doge to try and bring about some significant you know spending cuts and then you know to see a bill come in you know uh whatever 1,200 pages or so that you know adds you know to the deficit I think was pretty you know pretty disheartening. Uh I suspect I mean I'm not I'm not um you know I'm not in this uh in this fight and I think like trying to codify like you know a handful of billions in cuts probably is you know a
[00:56:50] drop in the in the bucket. So I can't imagine that's too exciting. You think he's going to get more vocal? I I I don't I wouldn't presume to know what goes on through his mind. Like I said, I think he spends a lot of time trying to solve a lot of world's problems and and a problem for this country and I think a lot of people agree with it is that the um you know this national debt is just getting way out of hand. I mean, this has been my
[00:57:15] case for about four years that if we don't fix this, it eventually becomes an intractable death spiral. And uh when that happens, all of the wrangling we're doing over budget, priorities, programs, interests, jobs are no longer possible. It's like you're trying to rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic. You don't get the choice of what programs to fund when there is no funding. And that's the unfortunate iceberg we're running into. Do you think
[00:57:42] Doge is dead? Any point of view on that? I mean, it was interesting. You know, obviously there was kind of the grand exit uh this past week and then I don't know, at least in my Twitter feed, I try and follow a lot of the cabinet secretaries. You know, they were all coming out and saying, you know, Doge is alive and well embedded inside the I you know, I think it was more implying that like, you know, we're going to clean
[00:58:02] house. We're going to take care of our own house as opposed to letting other people help us do it. Problem is, like we haven't been very successful at that historically. So, I suspect going into the midterms, people don't want to, you know, let the other side be pounding the table on Doge. So, I I don't know. I mean, I look, I was I've been an outsider nominee, so I have no idea how it'll play out, but I I I I think that
[00:58:22] some I imagine some people in the government want to see it go quiet late in the night. Is there a deep state? And does the deep state's like, is it too big to break? You know, I don't I don't I don't like know what I would classify a deep state or not. Like there are there are there is an absolutely bloated bureaucracy that uh hates change uh gets very entrenched that is happy to ride out uh political appointees like you
[00:58:56] know what you're gone in three four years or you know you're or dead before you even arrive in my case uh we'll wait you out. So, I think there's some of that uh and then I think there's some of that in with actual, you know, uh politicians and political appointees that um uh advocate like hell for the status quo. And some of it might be good intended because they're just afraid of what comes next. And you know, why um
[00:59:20] why take a risk when you've got something right now that supposedly works? And I ask like, you know, what what if that what if that comes at the competitiveness of the nation and our economic security? What if we get it wrong because you weren't willing to take some risk and and make changes? Um, so I don't think they're necessarily all evil, by the way. I just think some people get very comfortable in the status quo.
[00:59:42] Are you going to go back to space? I um I don't know. You know, this is like the first time in 26 years that I've been, you know, really kind of out of work. Uh I'm sure I'm definitely going to go back and help Shafor. I won't ever rob my CEO of his well-deserved, you know, title now. I I'll probably be an exec chair or something. And, you know, I got to work. I got to have a mission. Um, but I'll find something to to contribute to. And
[01:00:08] man, I I love uh I love flying and I love space and I like the philanthropic efforts we've been doing with St. Jude. So, I'll keep busy. Amazing. Well, look, you're you've been, if nothing, Jared, an inspiration to many. Uh, I appreciate your commitment to service, your commitment to charity, your commitment to discovery, and uh, I want to thank you for the time today. It's been really great talking with you. Thank you. Oh,
[01:00:31] thank you. I, uh, I appreciate having the opportunity to chat. [Music]