[00:40:35] of international partners to support it because we like collecting flags. Um, and it doesn't necessarily always mean that what they're contributing to is in the best interest of the program. Case in point, you know, we had, you know, gateway man like this is going down a rabbit hole of a lot of things because of the shortcomings of the vehicle, but it's expensive. It's disposable. it is not the way to do uh affordable,
[00:40:56] repeatable, efficient exploration whether it's to moon, Mars or anywhere else. So let's get it done and then focus on the on the right way to go about doing this so that we're not seeing people walk on the moon every 5 years or something crazy that it's happening all the time which is what we get excited about. What is there to do on the moon? Why should we go back? What is the purpose? I think, you know, it's
[00:41:17] it's it's almost like a, you know, if you're going to go and commit yourself uh take risks in a in a conflict, you know, you want clear objectives. And in my mind, again, aside from the fact that the hardware is already essentially purchased, it's clear objectives. Is there any economic, scientific, or national security reasons to be here? And I don't think we can say that conclusively right now that that there
[00:41:37] are none. and China is going uh and if they were to find something even a small probability a 1% let's just say hypothetically it's helium 3 and and they're going to usher in a new form of power. Think about how many conflicts that we've had over the last century over uh over sources of power over energy. Do we want to get that one wrong? And and are we willing to take a 1% chance and and that could shift the
[00:42:02] balance of power here on Earth? I don't think so. And we said we were going to do it for 35 years and we and we spent 100 billion of taxpayer money. Like I said, the hardware is there. But I think you do it. You make those determinations. Is there scientific, economic or national security reason to be here? And if not, you move on. And if companies like Blue Origin and SpaceX and even Rocket Lab are successful with
[00:42:20] their vehicles, you're going to have like the optionality to go to the moon. It's not the Delta V is a negligible difference between whether you're going to the moon or Mars. And we should colonize Mars. We should build a colony on Mars. I think we need to go there. Um and by going there it is a it is the first step on a far grander journey you know and uh you know I I I you know Elon is obviously very passionate about it
[00:42:43] occupy Mars like he knows it's not the perfect destination there's nothing like you can you know it's unlike anything in in Earth's history you know people say it's analoges to you know the explorers of the 1400s or putting people in like those shipping containers for six months and saying we know how to live on Mars it's you know you could work your whole life on Mars and you still live in a bubble You know, so it's not like it's not
[00:43:05] going to be an easy way of life, but it is a step in the right direction. Like our destiny is out and among the stars. Like we will inevitably learn something out there that's going to change our thinking and we it's going to it's going to create a a craving for that knowledge and we are going to want to continue to go out and explore and learn even more. Mars is the best stop first step on that journey. So, let's talk about getting
[00:43:30] there and achieving some of the other missions that we might have as a country, as a species, and the relationship with private industry. Elon believes he can get payload into orbit for $10 per kilogram with the Starship platform, which is, call it a roughly 100x reduction in cost. Yeah. Um maybe more. Maybe from some from a depending on the point at which you're measuring it, maybe a thousandx reduction in cost. And that
[00:43:58] unlocks the potential to do these things in an economically viable way. Going to the moon, going to Mars. Why shouldn't NASA be more fully embracing of this private industry capability? Is it because it's Elon or is it because it reduces money going to defense contractors? What is the motivation against going all in on this company SpaceX or companies like it that have built these competencies that would have been unfathomable just a few
[00:44:32] decades ago but are real here today? Oh, this is such a a deep conversation. Uh so, um look, I I one thing I'd say is like I obviously I love SpaceX and they safely put me into space twice on two awesome missions, brought me home and I'm cheering them on. I I'm I'm happy what SpaceX is doing. I'm thrilled about the investments that Blue Origin's doing, that Rocket Lab is doing, you know, uh Firefly. So, it's a look, we
[00:44:58] have a great industry. So, the broader question is just why isn't why isn't NASA leaning more into commercial? Well, look, it's NASA's foresight that gave birth to the commercial crew program that enabled even me to go to space. So, like they are thinking in that direction, but there are politics in play. The nice thing is is those winds are shifting uh throughout my you know, whole confirmation process. you know,
[00:45:18] you are educated heavily by some very smart political folks. Uh they sherpa you around every senator and they were like, look, the, you know, a year ago, two years ago, the idea of talking to senators that are in SLS states and convincing them we need to be looking a little bit more to the future with commercial and maybe pivoting to things like nuclear propulsion would be a non-starter. And I'll tell you, they
[00:45:39] were very reasonable. uh all of them were very reasonable that they know that you're you know this this rocket built on 60-y old technology that's $4.5 billion a launch has an expiration date. So I do think like that ship is turning. It's just this isn't like a this isn't a speedboat. The government, you know, it's a it's turning like it's a giant, you know, shipping container. It turns a half a degree like a year and uh and
[00:46:02] that's not obviously fast enough for a lot of us. Um but I would say it's moving in that uh that direction. And then NASA also has to, you know, repurpose its resources on things that a SpaceX or Blue Origin won't do. They're not going to put a rock, they're not going to build a nuclear reactor and launch it. Uh you're not going to get the indemnities for that. Even shipping highlyenriched uranium is a nightmare.
[00:46:22] That is what the government should be doing. Like so NASA should be doing what the commercial industries can't. And that by the way takes so much stress off a company like SpaceX trying to get to Mars. Like if you can minimize the number of space-based refueling or the insitu resource manufacturing, look, even when a starship gets to Mars, you're betting on like you know a 100 consecutive miracles happening to top to
[00:46:43] mine propellant there and bring it back. NASA should be helping. The government should be helping with that because it it creates a lot of other optionality. We can have you know nuclear battle stars in lower Earth orbit um you know as part of uh Golden Dome. There's a lot of reasons why you know it's not all SpaceX all commercial versus NASA. both totally. So just to compare last week Space Epoch, a Chinese rocket company
[00:47:06] completed its first sea recovery test. So much like we saw a few years ago with SpaceX, they had a vertical launch and they landed back in the ocean about 125 second flight. The key question a lot of folks are now asking, has China caught up? Is this a space race? Why does it matter? Because isn't space big enough for everyone? I mean the space is the ultimate high ground and the high ground has mattered you know it's had tactical and strategic
[00:47:33] significance since like the beginning of humankind. It matters. I was grateful to have the opportunity to lead you know the peaceful exploration uh of space but it's not all peaceful like we we we can't be naive to the fact that it has been weaponized and you know China leading in this domain makes a difference. Um there are things of scientific and economic and again national security value out there and we we can't we have to lead we
[00:47:57] can't fall behind. If we fall behind we may never catch up. So and I am concerned about that uh you know China moving closer to reusability. They launch the second most uh orbital rockets every year without reusability. Uh you know thank goodness for for SpaceX or or we definitely be already behind in that regard. So um I am concerned about it. It it it honestly it is a race and like yeah we we the domain is vitally important we can't fall
[00:48:22] behind. So that gives them the high ground with respect to weapons systems with respect to observational platforms sensors etc. Right. Yeah. Okay. So so let's talk a little bit about your nomination. You seem I would give you my vote. You should be the administrator of NASA. It would be amazing. Um thanks. You testified in front of the Senate committee on April 9th. I think it was a 19 to9 vote to move you out of
[00:48:45] committee. Yes. Then there were reports going into this weekend that you were going to be voted on by the full Senate this week and the estimates were you were going to get 70 confirmation votes or that was some news report I had read. So it seems like you were going to fly right through and administer NASA. Um so then what happened? So I I mean I got a call um Friday of last week that um you know the uh the president has decided to go into
[00:49:12] a uh go in a different direction. Uh it was a um uh it was a real bummer and I uh I know like a number of parties in government need to be notified of that which um you know I expected to kind of have just a peaceful weekend and the next thing I knew on Saturday you know it was uh there was a lot of activity on the internet but maybe that's just like my perspective cuz I follow space uh and and such but it was certainly uh you
[00:49:36] know disappointing but uh you know the president needs to have you know his person that you know he counts on to to fulfill the agenda And um yeah, I uh the person that called you, what was what did they tell you was the reason the president was withdrawing his nomination? Uh just said the president had decided to go in a different direction. We all serve at the pleasure of the president. Um now I mean I started to get some more details as it
[00:50:02] went on. I honestly also like I'm not like I don't like play dumb on this. I I had a pretty good idea of um you know that um you know I don't think that the timing was much of a coincidence uh that you know there was other changes going on the same day and uh you know it was kind of uh obviously a little bit of a a disappointment. So are you referring to Elon? I I just you know there was uh obviously there was more than more than one you
[00:50:33] know departure that was covered on that day and um it became uh you know at least from what I what I've heard that it was uh there was a um you know there was and I'm just you know I read the news same as everybody else but I you know had obviously was in the in DC for the last 6 months getting ready that you know there were some people that um you know that had some axes to grind I guess and uh and I was a a good visible
[00:50:59] uh target. I know that like the the news talks a lot about like that, you know, Democratic donations is the cause. Um that was not a new development. You just Google, you can they're all public. The New York Times published an article saying that President Trump knew about your Democratic donations in the past when you received the nomination. So that was actually not news according to the New York Times that that was well
[00:51:20] understood, well covered. So kind of put the kibos on that explanation. So what are the axis to grind or the access to grind with Elon? Are there kind of two factions? Whatever you can kind of provide some color on, I think it would be really helpful to understand because there's a lot of speculation going on right now and I would say some folks are really disappointed in some of the transitions that are taking place and
[00:51:41] some folks are really trying to grock it and understand it. So anything you can do to help folks understand would be, you know, I think helpful. You know, first I just I want to be overwhelmingly clear. I I I don't fault the the president at all. I fully support him that you know the president of the United States you know the leader of the free world makes a thousand decisions a day with seconds of information. He's
[00:51:59] got to get a lot more right than wrong. Um so I don't I mean you know I don't blame you know an influential adviser coming in and saying look here's the facts and I think we should kill this guy and the president's got to make a call and move on. Um I think that's exactly uh you know kind of how it went. Um it was not the Senate at all. Uh you don't get floor time by the way. uh you know there's a hundred nominees that are
[00:52:21] like waiting for floor time. The only way you get floor time is when a lot of senators you know call Senator Thoon and say this is our guy and we got to move him along. That's how you know it's like a high you're going to get a high vote count. So the Senate was very fair, really nice. I I enjoyed that experience. I you know I think you you got one person um and I don't know the history on like what the trigger was or
[00:52:44] wasn't but um you know decided to to kind of make a move and again I don't fault the president for it at all but you know look in in in terms of donations I I've always been you know somewhat of a moderate I actually like I am like a right leaning I I I do support you know the president's agenda that's why I made as big of a donation as I did to his cause. Let me just ask for clarity. Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead. I was
[00:53:07] just going to say like when you fill out your questionnaire for the Senate committee, which is public, it asks you to list every donation. Before you go in front of a single senator, before you do a hearing, you do these um prep sessions at the White House where people pretend to be senators and they prep you on the donation question. So like that wasn't new news. Might have been new to the president at that, you know, might have
[00:53:26] refreshed his memory perhaps, but uh that I don't I don't think that was the cause. I think the media has got it pretty accurate. So, was this a shot at Elon by someone that is anti- Elon? I mean, you know, people can draw their their own conclusions, but I I think the direction that people are going is um or thinking on this seems seems to check out to me. And what is the root of that? Is it vested interest in spending that
[00:53:53] Elon is advocating gets cut? Is it diametrically opposed philosophical points of view on the role of government? What is the root anti- Elon sentiment? that is kind of on the other side of the equation here. Do you think I mean I think that the uh the people overwhelmingly voted for the president to go in and shrink the government and bring about change and get rid of fraud, waste and abuse of which I am a thousand% behind the president and I I
[00:54:19] believe that that's what you know Elon and Doge was working towards. But people also hate change. Like we all know this and um you know people can uh be very protective of their empire and you know when somebody comes in you know Elon's got a playbook and I think he knows how to get things done. And I and I I think you know in a lot of respects that um that rub some people or you know what I think that was one of you know or um had
[00:54:42] some axes to grind. I don't know. And uh and um you know we're just waiting. I I I don't I you know I don't want to speculate on all this but yeah. No, I mean, um, I think that that you've said enough and I I guess you've seen the tweets from Elon today where he was pretty negative about the House bill that is being labeled the big beautiful bill, making the case that it's actually going to drive up a government deficit to over two trillion,
[00:55:16] two half trillion dollars a year. It doesn't make deep enough cuts. There's a lot of pork in there, a lot of wasteful spending in there. And then the House Speaker today responded to Elon saying, "Hey, we've still got a recision bill coming. We've still got an appropriation bill coming where we're going to start to fix the budget." But clearly Elon is now getting vocal about his point of view on this. Have you spoken with him
[00:55:39] at all about what's going on and government spending and his kind of take on things as he's walked out of the office there? Well, you know, as you know, I kind of mentioned, I told the Senate, too, like I've only spoken to Elon, you know, I don't know, a couple dozen times, most of which related to human space flight missions, but when I was talking to him towards the end of last year, it it was all on government
[00:55:59] efficiency related programs. And I think Elon got a lot of people excited about Doge u by making like one simple point. The interest rate on the national debt exceeds, you know, the DoD budget. that's scary and it's getting worse and we can't spend our way out of this problem. Um, which we've grown a habit to doing and I know he's very passionate about it and um, you know, he sacrificed a lot along with all the others you know