[00:13:47] like Polaris dawn was formed at that time or did that come together later just for the audience. So last what was it September you were the first private citizen in human history to perform a spacew walk which again another incredible moment and you know I think it was inspiring for people who realized at that moment that perhaps you didn't need to become an astronaut to be able to walk in space. I mean it was really
[00:14:14] just incredible. But how did the continuation go from inspiration 4 to Polaris dawn? Yeah and I I loved it. I mean, Plaston was filled with we crammed so many really incredible objectives in five days uh on top of about 40 science experiments. It was an awesome mission. I'd love to tell you about it. And and you know, but uh yeah, so when we came back from Inspiration 4, I thought we checked the box on every objective. I
[00:14:39] mean, we navigated the whole, you know, billionaire in in space thing, which at the time with, you know, some of the other, you know, missions that were going off was um was attracting a lot of a lot of heat and really focused it on trying to to do good in the world that, you know, we can make progress in space and try and, you know, make the, you know, mother earth a better place. And we focused on raising a lot of money for
[00:15:00] St. Jude. And um and anyway, like we did and we did three days of science and research experiments. It felt really good and we were a little bit short on our uh on our um you know our fundraising goal for uh St. Jude. I mean we we set out to raise over $200 million. We wound up raising $250 million but we were a little short and we came back and I was like man we almost got everything done and then Elon sent a tweet right after Splashdown. 40
[00:15:25] minutes after Splashdown and he said put me in for 50 million. And he already had put in five and we we we exceeded our goal and I was like man we got everything done. We set the bar high. Maybe this is it. And um it was a couple weeks later that I was invited to go to Starbase. Uh this was the second time I went. This was like October of 21. And we sat down with a number of folks including Elon. And we talked about, you
[00:15:52] know, doing a um like a developmental program where we actually can build things and test things that hadn't been done in a while. And I remember Elon, he's like, "We we can build a suit. I know exactly how I would do it. and let's go up really high, you know, let's get past the Gemini 11 record, go farther into space than anyone's gone since we last walked on the moon because it's it's different. It's hard and we're
[00:16:11] going to learn a lot. And that's what you need to do when you want to inspire people is not kind of do the same things over and over again, but but do things that are different and build up to an even grander objective. And I was like, "All right, I'm totally in." And we contemplated other missions, you know, a follow on to Polaris dawn and then the first crude flight of Starship. But, uh, the nomination came in and, you know,
[00:16:29] had to put my my, uh, fun space career on hold to to to for an incredible opportunity to serve the country and contribute to the world's greatest space agency. So, let's get into that. How did the conversation lead to you becoming the nominee to administer NASA? Were you in conversations with Elon first? Is that how this this kind of began for you? No. So, and and I think like that's another thing that, you know, almost every
[00:16:59] senator wanted to ask is, you know, you know, weren't weren't you Elon's guy in this? Like I I have no doubt. I mean, look, he he he helped the president win the election. He he's was in Air Force One, Marine One. He was at Mara Lago throughout the campaign. I'm I'm I'm sure he had inputs. I was getting text messages from generals that I uh that I got to know when I built, you know, helped build that defense company,
[00:17:20] Draen. Uh that's where we flew all the fighter jets and and you know, they were in now positions of influence and said, "Would you like to serve in the in the administration and and it wasn't even just NASA. I mean, there were roles from Treasury to uh the department, you know, to the Air Force." And I was like, I am honored to contribute anyway. you know, I've had I've been, you know, relatively apolitical, but if I've had one
[00:17:42] political position that I've been pounding the table on since I um since I I was exposed to the defense industry at Draen, it's the competitiveness of the nation. And that's because I saw when we were replicating, you know, enemy tactics in 2015 in fighter jets, the gap between our capabilities and the bad guys was wide. And you felt very confident and every year it started to shrink. And it's like, what is going on
[00:18:07] here? Why are we paralyzed? Why are we slowing down while while the Chinese especially are moving wicked fast? Um, and I've spoken out about it from time to time on where I think some of the problems are and over consolidation of the defense industry. So anyway, I I was absolutely honored to have a chance to serve. I'm sure Elon contributed into the, you know, was supportive in it, but it was a number of folks and I got a
[00:18:29] call from Howard Lutnick, who was leading the uh, transition team, and he did a phone interview and the next thing you know, like 40 hours later, I was at Mara Lago. He said, "Hop on a plane. Come out here." Having a lot of friends of mine who are serving in this administration, your story sounds familiar that folks that are close to this whole group that was sitting at Mara Lago for several weeks and months after the
[00:18:57] election. I've heard a lot of similar stories that folks got called saying, "Hey, would you like to consider something?" And it was very open-ended. It's like we've gotten to know you. We trust you. You're reliable. But most importantly, we're looking for folks that have experience and acumen in operating a business, in understanding how to manage at scale, and really have a similar sort of belief system, I would
[00:19:21] say, to the folks that that were stepping in to run this administration. So, I I do think what you're saying sounds like what I've heard and makes a lot of sense to me. Um, so so you then fly out to Mara Lago. What was that like? Oh man, that was so cool. I mean it just happened so suddenly and I I mean just you know kind of put together uh a quick plan. Uh, at that point I knew it was consideration for NASA
[00:19:45] administrator, but I'll tell you in the days leading up to it, I was hearing everything from being at the Treasury Department in various roles and to um, you know, again to the Department of the Air Force, but I knew it was NASA and I was like, well, I got to I got to come with a plan and uh, and I, you know, we put together a one pager for the president and it was a it was a great interview. I mean, I never really met
[00:20:07] him in person. and I shook his hand kind of once in passing uh 10 plus years earlier and the president was incredibly knowledgeable. Um I was impressed. He knew a lot about the space program which makes sense. He I mean you know he helped with commercial crew return operational capability to the US with with Dragon. You know a big push on the Artemis program created the space force. He knew a lot he knew a lot about China.
[00:20:32] Uh he kn we talked a lot about their air force actually which I thought was interesting. some of my my um you know defense experience and uh it was incredible. I mean it was an hour plus long and I um I uh I came away with it feeling uh you know really good about the opportunity. Who coached you on your one page there and what did it say? Nobody coached me on it. It was it was just I generally you know I've had an
[00:20:53] opportunity to obviously interact with NASA over the last I mean my my commercial space career now goes on uh well it'll be it'll be 5 years in a in a couple months from when it began. And you know during Polaris storm when we were doing suit development spent a lot of time at NASA using their chambers and facilities had a lot of you know kind of firsthand experience certainly Kennedy Space Center. So I had a good starting
[00:21:14] place and uh I think it really just centered on look in in in this kind of environment budgets aren't getting bigger. Uh we do have to do more with less. The agency is doing a lot of littles a lot of things that other agencies departments companies are capable of doing. That's not why the taxpayers fund NASA. Like NASA's funded to do the near impossible that no one else can do, not things that, you know, companies should be doing for their own
[00:21:39] competitiveness. You know, uh NASA helps fund like engine efficiency programs for you know um commercial jet engine providers. It's like don't they need to do that themselves or else they lose to their competitors? Like why are we funding this? So basically like an idea to kind of go in stop a lot of the littles that are not needle movers that are not why the agency exists and concentrate on the needle movers. So,
[00:22:02] you know, that's leading in the high ground of space. Uh, let's get let's, you know, let's complete our our lunar obligations cuz that's a whole another story with with China. At the same time, parallel the the, you know, parallel the capabilities to get to Mars, help commercial industry uh, develop the the rapid reusable heavy lift capability that allows us to go anywhere, pivot from competing with industry to doing
[00:22:24] what no company would ever do, which is build nuclear spaceships. There's a lot of advantages to it. nuclear electric propulsion for sure. You know, we don't have to worry as much about refilling. It's hyperefficient transport of mass. It opens up, you know, beyond Mars. And and frankly, like look, it takes the pressure off insitu resource manufacturing. And if you are going to do insitu resource manufacturing, you're
[00:22:45] going to need nuclear power. And the farther we get away from the sun, the less reliant we are on solar. A lot of reasons why that should not be a small program in the lab right now doing light bulbs, but should be a billion dollar initiative. you know, figuring out the space economy and uh increasing the rate of world changing discovery. Those have been my priorities. Uh it's what I told briefed the president. It's what I went
[00:23:05] through the Senate and the hearing on. It's what we would have tried to concentrate on if I got the job. There's a lot in there we should unpack. I want to just get your perspective on the arc of NASA. You know, NASA is a storied institution, inspirational to many. You and me the same. I still wear a NASA hat with pride often, but you know, the agency from an outsers's perspective feels like it's become a lagard. It
[00:23:35] feels like it's kind of lost a little bit of its luster. Why is that? Do I have that wrong? And if I don't, what has happened to the administration of the agency over the decades that's led to this this moment? Well, I like you, I love NASA, and I was so excited to to contribute. I was honored that the president nominated me. I mean, you've got the best and brightest that show up to work every day and want to win in the
[00:23:58] high ground of space and I would have been thrilled to work alongside him. You're totally right. Everything about it, even that just looking at the insignia, how how damn inspiring it is, but NASA's got problems and um but that's that look that's not unique to them. It's going to be governmentwide. Whatever I tell you that I think is wrong with NASA, I would guarantee it, you know, is uh like, you know, it's
[00:24:18] systemic across uh every government agency and department. Uh the bureaucracy is super real. No one's gonna be surprised about that. You know the you have dozens of layers of leadership. Everybody's got a deputy. I mean you know things that you know I know like you know we know in business that certainly Elon knows and instills in his companies across commercial space like ownership like you push ownership down to the lowest levels. You empower
[00:24:42] the smart people to make good decisions. You know you give them the tools to make those good decisions. You hold them accountable when you get them wrong. That does not exist inside NASA or the government. There is so many layers of management. Everybody's got a deputy. It's crazy. I would have deleted all that. Like not that not the people don't need to go, but they need to, you know, the the the amount of deputies,
[00:25:01] assistants, associate assistant to the deputy, the amount of committees, the meetings with 200 people on them, the review boards, like like all that needs to go. You need so many more doers. And there's a lot of them there. They're really smart, but you you got to push down uh you know, ownership to the absolute lowest level. So you you got this crushing bureaucracy that impedes progress. And then and here's where
[00:25:23] Congress plays a role. Every state's got some equity that they care about and they protect like hell and it impedes the big progress. You know, like I I tell you, I I love talking to all the senators and the Senate was so fair to me and and I know I would have had a lot of great votes, but you talk to some senators and they're like, you know, we have a local rocket club that supports these schools and NASA contributes it to
[00:25:44] every year and I want to make sure that continues. It's like, well, why can't you do a car wash for the rocket club? Like, this isn't huge dollars. Why can't the community raise those funds? And then you might say, well, what's wrong with a couple rocket clubs, you know, to inspire the kids all across the country? Well, well, one turns to 10 turns to thousands, and it becomes a distraction. Those are parts to delete. Those are
[00:26:04] resources that are draining away from what every senator should care about, which is how do we get to the moon, get to Mars, and shock the world with, you know, with with with world changing headlines. That's what people are are waiting for from NASA, you know, 100%. I mean, man, what you're saying resonates with me so much. It's not just NASA. It's across the federal government. I've spent enough time now interacting with
[00:26:26] folks and meeting with folks and hearing similar stories. It's just the chaos that that builds with scale, with age, with bureaucracy, with competing interests that all have to be met and you end up diluting everything away. It's so frustrating to hear that. I think this does play into um why China is is really just moving at at lightning speed right now. They have this immense second mover advantage that is um that
[00:26:54] is crushing across all technology. You know when you had the Manhattan project we uh we had the the technical knowhow, the will and the resources to get something done and we set up facilities where we needed them. you know, Oakidge and Lawrence Liverour and um you know, like you know, you get um you put the facilities where you need them and the talent where you need them to execute on the mission and everything builds up
[00:27:17] logically to it and you and you deliver a win. And we did the same thing with the space program, you know, in the in the in the 1960s. Well, now all of those national labs and all and really honestly a lot of the facilities within NASA are doing lots of little things for existence. Um and some of them are relevant to the mission and some are not. And when you try and do something, you know, glorious now, you have to try
[00:27:40] and repurpose those resources that are super entrenched and they don't want to necessarily move. And then, of course, you have Congress that's protecting their programs. China is literally doing what we are do what we did, you know, in the in the ' 40s and 60s and saying, we're going to, hey, we're going to go after fusion, um, or we're going to work on next generation fifth gen nuclear reactors. We're going to build sixthgen
[00:27:58] fighter jets. And they put the facilities where they belong with the right people and resources. There's no baggage. and they have this incredible second mover advantage and they're able to get things done at lightning speeds because they don't have all that drag and we have a lot of drag and again it's not just NASA it's it's governmentwide and do you think there's a way to fix it without Congress or is the only way to
[00:28:20] fix it without Congress meaning there needs to be no Congress if we have a shot at fixing this and there needs to be a different governing model. Yeah. You know, look, I I think the uh I think this is this is why I I absolutely support the the president that, you know, despite all I I mean, I my single largest political donation ever was to was to President Trump in this uh you know, to support his inauguration. It's
[00:28:46] why I got charged up with uh you know, with Elon assembling the Doge team is like we do have to shrink the government. We do have to get rid of all these inefficiencies, these the waste and the distractions from the mission, things that we don't need every taxpayer contributing to and actually concentrate those dollars, real dollars, on the things that the taxpayers should be fighting for. And when you do that, you
[00:29:07] know what, like 20 billion or 25 billion is actually a lot of money. And you know, and I know like it's it's a super tough budget environment right now. And people people hate change, but I'm always surprised when like a million is not a million anymore and a billion is not a billion because you do an awful awful lot with that. So, if there was ever a time to get this done, uh it's now with President Trump with when he