[00:00:00] No text GLP-1 drugs have become increasingly popular. Eli Liy coming to save us here has had its market capitalization increase by about 860% since he became CEO and the stock price is up a little bit more than a,000%. No need for needles. Eli Liy says it has a pill. Eli Liy's experimental pill appears to work as well as the injected drug. It's everyone's job to move the science. We should always be pushing forward.
[00:00:33] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Eli Liy CEO Dave Ricks. How are you? Hi, David. Good to see you. Good to see you. How are you? How are you, Dave? All right. You want to say thank you? I just want to Dave. Yes. I don't want to make it awkward. Well, we were sitting here three years ago on this pod and Chimath was calling me a fat bastard. He wasn't wrong. I was 213 lbs. I'm afelt 172 right. Awesome.
[00:01:17] And it's because of what you've done. Thank you. Can I give you a hug? You can. Yeah. Bring it in here. Bring it in here. I appreciate it. Congratulations. That's also Sax lost 20 pounds. So together we've lost a Freedberg. That's actually my husband. Come on. Nice. Nice. How much money are you guys printing? My lord. What do you do with it? You have wheelbarrels. What do you do with Can I please start? Yes. Go ahead. Okay. Sorry. I got four more jokes. I'll get them in the end. Um I mean you really have built one of
[00:01:43] No text the most incredible business in America, but you've done it because you took an enormous bet long time ago. Yeah. Um, do you want to talk us through the journey and the process you had to go through and what you saw early on and um, how you made the bet on this class of drug? Yeah, great. And thanks for having me here. I'm trying to up my cool factor. That's what they tell me in M Midwest I need to do. Can you get a Tomas Ford uh, suit as
[00:02:12] well? No, I'm actually disappointed in the in the ties. Like that's I don't know. That's not You and I are you and I guy wears ties. Dave Suit Supply does a great job. Just own it. Okay, there we go. Just donate. Okay, so uh yeah, GLP1 drugs, we all know about it. It feels like an overnight success, but what what happened? You know, drug development is hard and long and requires a fair amount of failure and discipline, a huge amount
[00:02:37] of capital. So, actually in 2006, we launched the first GLP-1 drug. Nobody really knew the name of it. It was a twice a day injection for diabetes, but the cover of our annual report uh in 2007 had a lady on it and she said there's a quote. It says, "Oh, my diabetes is under control and I'm losing a little bit of weight." So, that was 18 years ago. I mean, and since that time, we're now we've been inventing new versions of that, solving various
[00:03:02] problems with that twice a day. We wanted to make it more convenient. Needed to get the dose up and people tended to lose weight, more weight when you when you got the dose up. And then tzepide which um you ask how much money we're making but in actually in Q2 we reported uh global sales which surpassed Kitruda to becoming the bestselling drug in the world. Actually the bests selling drug in the world of all time in Q2 this year. How much did it make in Q2?
[00:03:26] We 8.1 billion in revenue and growing at 80%. Yeah. And and how many people are on a GLP1 globally now? I'd estimate around 20 million take prescription GLP1s. some unknown amount of people take nonprescription. But anyway, so that would be compounding compounded or synthetic. Yeah. Or just like not for human use. We can talk about all that. Yeah. So anyway, um 2014 comes along. Uh four scientists at Lily decided to combine GLP-1 with another peptide that your stomach produces when you eat that's
[00:04:01] appetite suppressing. They made the single molecule culture. That's what's Mjaro now. But that happened in 2014. 2016 I be I was named a CEO and I got a call that fall and one of our chief scientists called me and said hey we're we have to stop an early phase study for tepatide that's usually a bad call so I'm like ah like this is the followup to our second gen version of the GLP1 he said no no it's actually good good news we were running this study in Singapore with healthy male volunteers you can
[00:04:31] imagine what a healthy male Singaporean looks like at baseline right they're they're not overweight And we had to stop the study because they were losing too much weight too quickly. They were basically not eating. So scientists like actually it's good news. We can tune the dose down. We can work with this. And from there it was kind of just just execution. We knew it was going to be huge. And we started building out supply chain, building out factories, running a
[00:05:00] massive clinical program. We currently have over a hundred clinical studies with the medicine going on for all kinds of other uses as well, not just slowing down. We're going to go there in one sec, but I just want to go back to this. So the problem now, and maybe you can comment on this, is you have this enormous success. Yeah. There is a very active gray market, particularly in China, peptide synthesis, that are producing drugs that are basically the equivalent of your drugies,
[00:05:30] working around copies. Y um talk to us about that. How do you deal with that and what do you do about that and what should people do about that and when they encounter it? Yeah, it's an unusual situation. I think there's always been counterfeit medicines. We're not used to it in the United States because we one have a for most people a pretty good system to subsidize some of the benefit via the insurance markets. So there's not a lot
[00:05:54] of incentive to go outside the system. That's different for these drugs because insurance quality is poor. or most I don't know if you bought out of your own pocket but most people have um and so did you pay out of pocket? Well, interestingly when I first got it four years ago I had this revelation when I was in forto de Mar and um I had heard Tim Ferrris talk about it on his podcast with a friend of mine Kevin Rose and I went to my doctor and I said hey I
[00:06:18] want to get on this. He said what is that? He said oh no you don't need that. That's for people who are diabetic. You're not even pre-diabetic. I said no I want to do it for weight loss. It's off market. He said I don't know if I can do that. I said I'm going to get a different doctor if you don't. and he said, "Let me try." Yeah. And he got it on prescription. After I lost 20 pounds and my BMI got below 30,
[00:06:35] which really, I mean, I don't want to get emotional, but I got three daughters. I want to stick around. And it really changed my life incredibly. And in in many ways, I was embarrassed that I couldn't have the discipline to do it. And then I realized there was a food noise that I had that was constantly screaming. And once I cycled off of it for many months and now I'm on extremely low dose, the food noise and my discipline has come back. There's something about a certain moment where
[00:07:00] you get too far over it. So now I I do have to pay for drug. Yes. You've always Yeah. And I I think you know the the question I have for you No text about this big picture is there's a lot of demand for it. It is still a bit too expensive. You're wildly profitable. This going to be a pill format. I think you're Yeah, that's ours. That's coming next year. So, is there some thinking when your, you know, head hits the pillow, hey, I'm having such a profound impact on so many
[00:07:28] people's lives that all of the diseases we have are downstream of obesity. We know that this thing is helping with many other things. Do you have a moral imperative to bring this down, you know, 50% in price? I would think you that must weigh on your conscience that it's too expensive and you're too profitable in a way and there's shareholders who want you to print money but there are lives at stake here and there's longevity and there's
[00:07:52] health span so maybe unpack that. Yeah, we're committed to bringing the pricing down and I want to come back to the supply situation because that led to some of the compounding but also affects pricing. Um you know we've we've led in reducing the out-of- pocket costs but from it was originally $1,000 now it's $4.99 from us. Um, we'll push that down further with new medicines like orals. What's the goal for orals? The the main goal is to get it reimbured. Why is it we pay for anti-hypertensive drugs that the moment
[00:08:18] you stop taking them, you have the same exact risk as before, but we don't pay for anti-obesity drugs? That makes no sense to me. Why do we pay for surgeries that don't work, but we don't pay for these? What's the number on the pill? What's the target? You can tell us. Yeah, I don't have a target in my mind, but lower is the direction. We've told we've told the street expect singledigit deflation in this category over time. 5% a year it goes down
[00:08:41] uh or more. Yeah. Or more. 10%. So you get it down from 5%. But here's here's the risk Jason is if if we cut the price to say I don't know $100, there will be no more new medicines in this category. Okay? Because we'll have snuffed out essentially the incentive to create the next thing R&D. So we have to balance that. We want to create the next better medicine. We spend 25% of sales on R&D. This year that'll be 14.2 2 billion. Wow. That has to get paid for paid for
[00:09:07] through revenue. So, so with the cash flow that the business is generating, is that how you think about capital allocation? Some percent to R&D, some percent I'm assuming, to capex and supply chain durability, some percent maybe to buybacks. I mean, how do you think about where the capital should be allocated? And maybe on the R&D side, you can tell us a little bit about diversification and and how else you think about deploying capital. Yeah. Well, I think we're we've had this
[00:09:31] totally asymmetric uh success. So what do we do with it? I think one version of it is to sort of play out the cash flow game, return it to shareholders and return at some future date remembering that in pharma all our we have no enduring franchise. Everything we make goes to zero because of the patent system. So in 2030 something Mjaro will go to zero. Yeah. And so should we think about our company as one that will just return to the
[00:09:55] previous baseline, send all that money back to our shareholders who took that risk over 15, 20 years with us and pay them back. That's a little bit like I don't know how kind of Apple is running their company, right? Yeah. And that's viable. That's great for shareholders. I And at Lily, we think about our job a little differently. We want to create a solution to some other problem people have. And we think we're good at that and can uniquely do it. So,
[00:10:18] we should try. We should not try to no end. That's wasteful. You can just bury all that money. And that's sort of the history of the industry is people have found success. Wasted money. they go back to the baseline anyway, but the shareholders don't get rewarded. That's the So, we're we're running this experiment now. We're betting a lot on organic R&D buildout. We currently have about 4,200 PhD scientists at Lily, by
[00:10:41] the way. That's about the same as MIT and Harvard combined. So, the scale of the science enterprise is huge. How do you Dave, how do you push people on the risk spectrum? There's a tragedy of riches that can happen because you're so successful. There's this one drug. There could be like some emergent scientist in your organization who wants to take a long shot but then just doesn't feel motivated because like h it's just like this is not going to do anything. Yeah.
[00:11:05] How do you get that person unlocked so that they go for the big moonshots? You mean that their idea isn't big enough to matter. They think that but they may not know and they may stumble in a different path. I don't think that's our bigger problem. I think in big companies in general and pharma companies maybe in particular the bigger problem is people thinking they have a big idea but having no way to
[00:11:22] advance it. Right. So I'm trying to work on that side which is if you think you have something that could be big, how does it become easier to advance your idea in our company versus leaving us and raising money in venture? We can talk about venture and biotech in a second because it's totally totally broken broken right now. But um anyway back to David's question. So first priority invest in organic R&D.
[00:11:41] Secondly build out the supply chain. What's different about MARO and the following drugs is they're injectable drugs. These are very capital intensive technically difficult things to scale. We've committed with President Trump uh to build all that in the US. We're currently constructing six plants. We're going to announce four more in the next 6 months. I was hoping to be able to announce one today, but that'll come in a few weeks. So, yeah, this is creating
[00:12:06] um 20,000 construction jobs in this period and ultimately five or six thousand manufacturing jobs. Um and so we'll become a net exporter at scale for these. And unless some Chinese stateowned enterprise gets in this business, it'll be very hard for others to build that out and follow. Well, they're doing in the car business. So, yeah, if they're determined, they might. But then the final is is actually to buy external innovation where it makes sense
[00:12:31] to tuck it in. And maybe that leads us to market. You just you bought that gene therapy, right? Yeah. We recently bought a gene therapy company in in June. We can talk about that. But um we're doing a deal about every two weeks. Most of them are smallish. Biotech funding right now is a is in a dumpster fire. U peak got to about 20 billion in new checks a year into biotech. We're now around five. Um and just just walk walk the audience through
[00:12:56] No text the dynamics. So why is biotech cratered? Why is it so hard for capital to flow back in? What's what are the dynamics that are that are that are driving this market condition right now? many factors but the first one is competition for other venture ideas driven by the industry you guys are in right so there's just a crowd out going on with AI and other things that if it your cycle time to return is just more
[00:13:21] visible or faster biotech is hard and slow um secondly I think too many biotechs IPOed in the last decade and so the liquidity market has sort of collapsed because there's a lot of investors deeply underwater half of biotech that's publicly traded is trading at or below cash, right? So investors look at that and say, "What's my future here?" Yeah. It's unless you can really analyze the technology and take a differentiated bet
[00:13:49] on the drugs they're working on. I think general investors don't want to participate in that. And then you have China, which is the other factor, right? So China is investing heavily like they do every other stateowned thing. They're subsidizing their own companies. They have like a swarm model here where they'll subsidize many small things really against followon ideas betting they can execute faster than us. Um it's a national priority for a long time.
[00:14:14] Can you talk about issue there the patent and IP issue? So in the US you know when we make a filing and what goes on with respect to China they don't respect any of our IP do they? Well, I think right now they they are okay amongst so if I have a patent and I file and launch a product, I don't see immediate copies because it's in their interest to have a patent system right now for the reason you're raising. So we um changed the patent laws in the US in
[00:14:39] 2011 I think the American vents act where it's first to file. It used to be first to invent and all the pat litigation we had was all about whose lab notebook said January 5th versus January 4th on this invention. that was the case not did you file it in a reasonable time but did you invent it first now it's first to file so there's no question about who we don't care who invented it first it's just who got into the patent office as a consequence of that our biotech companies and big
[00:15:03] companies like Lily Fizer etc we file as soon as we can because we don't get beat on first to file what does that do it a patent exposes the invention to the world China's getting very good at patent hacking so what they do is they look at that chemical structure they work backwards sometimes driven by AI algorithms to find chemical structure that will behave similarly but are outside the patent scope and they go fast. So they're really quite a
[00:15:28] derivative biotech market but that is also hurting biotech valuations in a significant way. No text How old are you? I'm 58. You're 58. You look great. Thank you. You look like 40. What do you want? Off the menu. You come on. You look great. There's You got some off the menu stuff going on. What do you got? You're on the Wolverine. You want It's actually an interesting question. What is your lifestyle routine? Like, do you supplement? Is there anything else? I know. You have Brian Johnson coming.
[00:15:57] Okay. I I follow him on on X. I'm not doing the Brian Johnson. He's the opposite of you. He looks like he's dying. You're handsome. That guy looks like he's turning into a You know, that's a vampire. There's another Brian Johnson, the liver king. I don't know if you ever follow. Yeah. Both of these guys are taking it too far. But but seriously, be I get up early. I I work out. I read. Okay. Try to go to bed early. Sleep is important.