[00:13:49] on the drugs they're working on. I think general investors don't want to participate in that. And then you have China, which is the other factor, right? So China is investing heavily like they do every other stateowned thing. They're subsidizing their own companies. They have like a swarm model here where they'll subsidize many small things really against followon ideas betting they can execute faster than us. Um it's a national priority for a long time.
[00:14:14] Can you talk about issue there the patent and IP issue? So in the US you know when we make a filing and what goes on with respect to China they don't respect any of our IP do they? Well, I think right now they they are okay amongst so if I have a patent and I file and launch a product, I don't see immediate copies because it's in their interest to have a patent system right now for the reason you're raising. So we um changed the patent laws in the US in
[00:14:39] 2011 I think the American vents act where it's first to file. It used to be first to invent and all the pat litigation we had was all about whose lab notebook said January 5th versus January 4th on this invention. that was the case not did you file it in a reasonable time but did you invent it first now it's first to file so there's no question about who we don't care who invented it first it's just who got into the patent office as a consequence of that our biotech companies and big
[00:15:03] companies like Lily Fizer etc we file as soon as we can because we don't get beat on first to file what does that do it a patent exposes the invention to the world China's getting very good at patent hacking so what they do is they look at that chemical structure they work backwards sometimes driven by AI algorithms to find chemical structure that will behave similarly but are outside the patent scope and they go fast. So they're really quite a
[00:15:28] derivative biotech market but that is also hurting biotech valuations in a significant way. No text How old are you? I'm 58. You're 58. You look great. Thank you. You look like 40. What do you want? Off the menu. You come on. You look great. There's You got some off the menu stuff going on. What do you got? You're on the Wolverine. You want It's actually an interesting question. What is your lifestyle routine? Like, do you supplement? Is there anything else? I know. You have Brian Johnson coming.
[00:15:57] Okay. I I follow him on on X. I'm not doing the Brian Johnson. He's the opposite of you. He looks like he's dying. You're handsome. That guy looks like he's turning into a You know, that's a vampire. There's another Brian Johnson, the liver king. I don't know if you ever follow. Yeah. Both of these guys are taking it too far. But but seriously, be I get up early. I I work out. I read. Okay. Try to go to bed early. Sleep is important.
[00:16:20] Sleep. Okay. There's like four things in life that I think really matter where there's evidence. Sleep, eating healthy foods, mostly plants, movement, and social relationships. I think those are the things that over time that's cuz I got a meditation app. If you got a feedback, you tried to get me to do that. I My wife tried I haven't tried yours. But have you been motivated to try some of these drugs prophylactically? You know, I people ask me if I've used the GOP one drugs use. I haven't. Um
[00:16:47] yet is my answer because what's happening as with all medicine technologies you start with the sickest the most extreme cases and you work your way as you prove safety to general use. I think what we're seeing now with the broad benefits everything from metabolic disease less drinking lower inflammation uh our competitor Nova is going to read out a study in a few months on dementia risk. It probably won't be positive.
[00:17:15] That's my guess. But it will probably be in the right direction. So you have these sort of general what scientists would say pleotropic effect like broad-based positive things. I think we're going to get to a point where taking pretty low doses for most people say over 60 58 is not a terrible idea and may help you live longer. I just want to follow up on this one specifically. Um these peptides are becoming quite the rage in the
[00:17:40] biohacking space. Have you been tracking the Wolverine Protocol, BPC 157, and the tremendous impact people are reporting from it? There's lots of communities like this trying different things. We don't ever recommend that because we live in a world of clinical studies and FDA approvals, but you watch it, of course. Yeah. And what do you think of those specifically? I are you pursuing them? There are broad
[00:18:03] well we're pursuing them in the path we do which is taking those disease states or people with the pre- disease state like pre-diabetes and then we study it and we prove an outcome. So we did that with MARO and showed a 93% reduction in conversion from pre-diabetes to diabetes. That's kind of how we work is like slicing the medical stack. These guys are coming at it the other way which is sort of saying I'm already healthy. Can I generally stay healthier
[00:18:29] uh with small doses or other regimens, supplements? That's not our game, but we watch it. There's a handful of drugs that I would No text say are epidemically prescribed in America. Probably at the top of the list would be SSRIs and anti-depressants. Yeah. And there's a lot of anecdotal evidence that GLPS and this class of drug actually is quite helpful with just the psychological health of an individual. Um can you talk
[00:18:56] to us about that? Like what's ongoing? What is a readout that you think could be transformational in that space? Yeah, so this is interesting. I mean sometimes we engineer a medicine to do something like we did GLP GIP towards appetite to reduce body weight, lower blood sugar and lipids and then sometimes along the way you discover an effect you didn't predict. So one of those is like smoking sensation. When we started doing these studies at scale it
[00:19:20] was immediately obvious people stopped smoking. Like a lot of people stop smoking. also gambling and gambling and online shopping all kinds of this is why on it because he was stuck in the game poker's not gambling but go on so any anyway I was talking about craps so then there have been reports and there's a big VA study that read out and we know our veterans suffer from a lot of mental health yeah and there were
[00:19:42] pretty dramatic reductions for those that were using GOP1s who had diabetes so we are now right now starting studies in bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder along with these addictive hedonic pathways where you're sort of self-medicating um with a new GOP1 a different one that probably that has a little less weight loss but a little more brain activity really so dialed in for these uses so we'll get
[00:20:08] that drug in three or four years if it works and I think it could really change some of these terrible mental health conditions well can you take a step back maybe and jump off from SSRIs give us a description of the landscape of the American human health the ma the maha movement you know what Bobby and his team are now doing at HHS. Yeah. Long overdue. I mean, I think the the food system in particular um I you're working on this, but could be
[00:20:35] changed in a much more positive way. I think we are the the least healthy metabolic big country and probably the reason for that is the food we feed ourselves. processed food chemicals, highly processed food chemicals. This whole carb thing that went on for 30 years, which was has been totally debunked and uh food companies have a lot of influence and they've you're saying the anti-carb the low carb or no carb thing, the the anti-fat, high carb diets, which
[00:21:02] we were feeding people for 30 years, and I think most people don't believe in that anymore, but it led to a big part of the obesity curve, glycemic index kind of thing. So, I I'm all for all that and I think we should reform that and find ways to make quality food cheaper and more accessible for many No text people Kennedy. You like that he's shaking it up. It's a big part of Bobby Kennedy. I think that part I think we we
[00:21:24] have a lot of alignment on. I worry about um I'm all for skepticism of science. That's what scientific process is is questioning and challenging. I worry about some of the stuff going on with vaccines right now. Uh because I don't see why we're making the asking these questions. But it's okay to ask them. But if we restrict access while we're asking them, I worry about that. Can that hasn't really affected the
[00:21:48] medicine world. We don't make vaccines. But um at least recently we have. Let me ask you a hard question. Yeah. Um the mainstream media in many cases make 25 50% of their revenue off of advertising from companies like yours. Yes. We allow you to advertise. Should we allow you to advertise? And have you captured that mainstream media? Is that the intent when Anderson Cooper makes double digits of his money from your firms? Uh well, I would be for a system where
[00:22:20] we don't have nearly as much drug advertising to be clear. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that that's paradoxical. How do you then you just want to rise and fall based on your reputation? Mutually assured destruction, right? People the ads annoy people. They're poorly constructed. Why? Because of regulation built, believe it or not. If you read the regulation, 1992 FDA published a regulation on advertising built for magazine print advertisements. Yes. And now we have to follow that regulation for TV advertisements, which
[00:22:49] is why you have the scrolling side effects as if they were printed on the back of the ad. That's literally how we're here. So the ads are poor. They don't represent the patients we're serving, etc. By the way, more than half of our consumer spending to reach consumers is not on TV. So already the technology does work for you. Does it move the needle when you do a big ad buy there? It does unfortunately. Um that's why people keep doing it. Uh of course
[00:23:13] the the productivity of that is debased when your competitor does it but then you're then everyone wants to go up above the prisoners dilemma. Yeah. A little bit. So um I would be for a system where that got reduced. There's been a lot of legal actions that said that that were fought over this through the years and it's pretty clear under first amendment we can do it. It's hard to regulate. There's been some efforts in Congress to tax it differently. I'm okay with that. Yeah, it doesn't move my
[00:23:38] needle at all. You'd rather see that money go into R&D. I would suspect Yeah. You're not going to know what what's available off the sh, you know, on the doctor's shelf to you without any sort of knowledge or information. Truth is most primary care doctors are way too busy right to even attend a continuing education even know what's happening people what what do you think of people using chat GPT and large language models
[00:24:17] to do their research and then they come to their doctors sometimes with much deeper research than the doctor's aware of. Is this a plus or a minus? Do you trust it? Do you do it yourself? I think it's a huge plus I would say and I do do it myself. I also do it just to see what the different models are producing about our drugs. Yeah, it's like an audit. Um, but mostly it's accurate and um, they've it's gotten better over the last two years. I'd say
[00:24:41] substantially better. And many, including Google, to their credit, have a like a way to sort of uh, click through and check the facts directly, which is a useful thing. They've served that up a little more proactively. That's good. Poor consumers owning their health and for more information. Do do you work directly with them? Do you have an arm that will go to Grock, go to Gemini and say, "Hey, we did these searches. Here's some things you need to improve." So, we've pointed things out when there
[00:25:06] are mistakes. It does feel a little bit like we're lobbing into a black hole. Um, and maybe that's a capacity issue on their end, or maybe it's a they're taking the point of view that our model's just trained on the internet, the corpus of information on Reddit. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And it is what it is. We don't want to own the bastion of intellectual. Yeah. We don't want to own the outcome of that. Before we run out of time, I just want
[00:25:27] No text to get your view on um uh research funding in this country. The NIH uh budget uh cuts have been that have been proposed. How what will the follow-on effects be? Are these cuts going to be to low ROI research programs that ultimately wouldn't have translated into the clinic and and into improving lives? or are you worried about NIH funding cuts and what they're going to do to the pipeline of therapeutics in America? When will we realize the effects of
[00:25:59] that? Yeah, great question. I don't think anyone knows the answers to those. It's not obvious. Let me put it that way. No doubt that the NIH over its history has done some landmark things that no market could do. And I'm for more of that. mapping the human genome, a mega project that could only be done by government and undoubtedly produced a ton of good and economic value for the country. Um, I think if you look at the first of all, NIH total budget is a little over $40 billion.
[00:26:33] Most of that is extra mural. They're granting that to institutions in very in smaller checks, sometimes very small checks. I personally kind of wonder what the impact of that. Is it sort of a VC model where we spread a ton of bets and a few of those will bloom into giant successes or is it just sort of filtered out without a strategy? I I think that's a question that should be asked and maybe Jay's asking that. Um I think the
[00:26:58] other problem with the NH granting is as you do that like any government mechanism it gets influenced by the people who are making the grants. Who are those people? People receiving grants. M so there was a little bit of a backscratching uh issue here and I think exposing some sunshine onto that to you know sort of say what is that process is it truly competitive and is it truly pursuing ideas that the market can't solve itself and should it be done at universities let me just ask you this are
[00:27:29] universities the right research institutions today and going forward we've got two university leads tomorrow that we're going to have a conversation with about this topic amongst others but what's your you when you look around the world at how research is done xus what's the right what's a what's a what's the right model is this the right model I probably too much that way I'm on the board of an R1 university so I have to I'm a little biased maybe myself but I think a lot of good things have happened
[00:27:55] in universities but we should not exclude that to other applicants I I think there could be a place for other participants Dave um tomorrow we're going to have Mark Cuban yeah great and we're going to talk about PBMs yeah And one of the big he's on fire. Well, one of the big boogeymen in healthcare are these PBMs. Can you just explain, you know, quickly 30 seconds. What do they do? And what's your view on whether they should even exist in
[00:28:20] American healthcare? Probably we're at the end of that S cycle and we should get to something else. We actually owned a PBM in the '90s. Why do they exist? Two reasons. To match up claims. So you can go into any pharmacy in the country with a card that says here's my benefit and that benefit can be adjudicated to you. That was a big IT problem in 1993. It's not really a big IT problem now. And there's dozens of these so-called transparent or light PBMs. Actually, our company is moving to
[00:28:47] one off of one of the mainline ones because it's in our business interest, but also their service is better. The other thing is negotiate like bulk discounts. So, gather up a bunch of employers or plans, go to the drug companies, get a lower deal. I think that's fine. I'm for that, too. What happened is you know the like any uh consolidated terminal state of an industry what's the term the inification of their service is they just they just become so every every action they make
[00:29:14] is about their benefit not the customer and that's what's happened that's why everybody hates them s kind of came out of nowhere as this big category what if you had to guess what do you think the next big surprise category would be that we're not thinking out. It's hard to predict that, but I would say probably a brain disease. I think if you look at human suffering globally, 40% is brain diseases. And it's so broad
[00:29:39] we we could spend a whole panel talking about them. Um, and what we've had so far has not worked. You know, when Bobby's raising the question, why do we have so much autism? That's a great question. What's causing it? Depression rates despite the advent of I we invented Prozac, so many drugs. People are aided, but it's not solvent. We still have lots of depression in this country and maybe it's growing in youth. So these are huge problems as our population ages dementia and brain you
[00:30:04] know these. So I'd bet there part of what we try to do is allocate capital into spaces where there are no drugs hoping you know to hit hit the dart board where there isn't a competitor. That's how we got obesity drugs. We're working on that but it'll be hard to it's hard to predict. Ladies and gentlemen, please thank you David. Take a break. Thanks bro. Great to see you. Yeah, I'll be I'll get ready. Good to see you, baby. Yeah. Thanks, baby. Appreciate it.
[00:30:32] Congratulations, my man. I appreciate you. Appreciate it. Take care.