[00:13:44] you could sell some of it, but you might crater the stock if you do. And Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, and California all trying to seize assets. And this has really hit the creator the business creators in a in a really offensive way to the point at which they're moving. We lost California lost Sergey, Travis from Uber just fleeing fleeing en masse in the last 12 months. Do you believe in these wealth taxes and do you believe in
[00:14:17] seizing people's assets on gains they've never received? It's It seems to be getting momentum. >> I mean, I'll just tell you we've cut taxes seven times in Pennsylvania. We've got one of the lowest income taxes in the entire country. It's why I'm joking with you you should come to Pennsylvania and locate here. And And look, I mean, that kind of tax that you're describing is not something we have here. It's certainly not
[00:14:41] something on on my agenda. I do think people need to pay their fair share. I think you'd agree with that. We need to make sure that we are easing the burden on those who are working and who are at the lowest, you know, sort of economic point on the scale. And we got to make sure that folks at the top are paying their their fair share in order to to sustain our society. And I think we've struck a a really good
[00:15:03] balance here in Pennsylvania. And I think our growth numbers bear that out. I think seeing more people coming to the state bears that out. And I think there's an important stat, one of the things you you cited in those entrepreneurs as as you were going through your question is you know, these are people who kind of started with a dream, with an idea that, you know, someone might have looked at and said, &quot;Geez, I I don't know about
[00:15:27] that.&quot; But they stuck with it and and they built up their companies. We see here in Pennsylvania, particularly when it comes to life sciences, right? We're seeing people plant a flag here in Pennsylvania, start with an idea that others might think, &quot;Boy, I I don't know about that.&quot; But then because of our tax environment in Pennsylvania, because of our pro-growth approach in Pennsylvania, we're seeing more of those small
[00:15:51] businesses, more of those small companies, especially in life sciences, survive that sort of valley where a lot of those companies go out of business and sustain themselves here because again, I think we're showing that we're pro-growth, we've got a smart tax environment for them. And by the way, after we invest in them, after we give them a shot, and after they do well, we expect them to pay their fair share back
[00:16:14] to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And I think that's that's the approach we've taken and it's working. >> Yeah, and so if you're not in favor of a wealth tax, what would you do to deal with maybe this disparity in wealth that we're seeing? There was just some statistics that came out the other day, I'm sure you saw them. The upper middle class has just been surging, middle class going down a bit, and people in the lower wrongs going down as
[00:16:40] well. So, people may feel like they're not making enough money, but in reality what's happening is people feel other people have made a tremendous amount of money, which is true because of equity holdings are growing much better than salaries ever will, and only 40% only 50% of the country really participates in a meaningful way in equities. The other 40-50% don't have any exposure to that. So, how would you deal with somebody
[00:17:07] making, you know, a hundred billion dollars, five hundred billion dollars, a trillion dollars, and never selling their equity, or maybe not selling it for 20 years? How do you think about that? >> make sure three points, a Pennsylvania point and a couple broader points. One, you cannot have a national economy that works if it's only working for the 1%. And you pointed out in your question the wage disparity and the disparity of
[00:17:30] income. You have to make sure that there is opportunity for those at all different income levels. And look, as we sit here today, if you're making a million dollars versus $50,000, you make a million dollars, you're going to be able to buy some stuff that someone at $50,000 can't buy, right? We sort of understand that, but you got to have opportunity and you've got to have a level playing field. You got to have a fair shot and
[00:17:54] you got to have a tax system that works in a fair way. So, that's sort of point one. Point two is here in Pennsylvania, we've tried to address some of that economic disparity by passing the first ever working Pennsylvanians tax credit, sort of a state-side earned income tax credit. So, what we're saying is if you're working, if you're going out and busting your hump, we're going to put some money back in your pocket. About
[00:18:17] 940,000, almost a million Pennsylvanians are going to qualify for a little over 800 bucks back in their pockets. So, that's going to help not only today with rising costs due to a lot of these federal policies, but it's going to put money back in people's pockets, allow them to make, you know, the the the investments they need to make in their everyday lives. Here's the third point. What I would not do cuz you asked what I
[00:18:39] would do. What I would not do is what President Trump did at the federal level with an aid and assist from a whole bunch of sycophants in Congress by passing that budget bill or the beautiful budget bill or whatever the hell they call it. In effect, what they did was they gave a tax cut for those who simply do not need it, right? And by the way, you know, in the palace of truth and justice, you talk to those
[00:19:03] folks. They know that they didn't need that tax cut. And what happens as a result of that is I've got 500,000 Pennsylvanians who are going to lose their health care. I've got 120,000 who have already lost their health care. About another 320,000 or so were likely to lose Medicaid next year. I've got 26 rural hospitals that are likely to shutter because these are rural hospitals that are working at an operating deficit and they're relying so
[00:19:34] much on Medicaid which has been slashed by the federal government. So, the idea that Donald Trump thought it was smart economic policy to give a tax cut to those who don't need it and pay for it with those who are struggling where and create even greater economic disparities, that is going to hold back our entire economy. Just take those 500,000 people who aren't going to have health care. You're paying for that and
[00:19:57] I'm paying for that with our private insurance. So, what Donald Trump has done is shifted that burden onto those who are struggling, making it harder for them, adding additional cost to the middle class. And I think that that is that that lacks um frankly, it's just dumb economic policy. And I think it's going to set us back. >> Here we are. Politics is on the table. Incredible track record you have, but let's dive into the Democratic Party. Uh
[00:20:24] I'm an independent, but grew up Irish Catholic in Brooklyn, so grew up a Democrat. Probably have voted you know, 60/40 Democrat to Republican, but always for a moderate, somebody who can get stuff done. That's why I find you quite appealing. But, let's talk about the Democratic Party and the shellacking they got in the last election. And specifically, what really troubled me, Biden didn't look like he was all there
[00:20:50] and uh I think we've all come to some consensus that he probably should have dropped out earlier. But, what was really disheartening to me was that they didn't do the speed run primary. They didn't do, you know, a capsule primary over that July-August period and gave you a shot and other people a shot, Pritzker, Pete whoever to to compete for the nomination. Was that a huge mistake for the Democratic Party? And then when you look back on it, do
[00:21:16] you think that might have cost you all the election? >> Well, look. I mean, I actually wrote about this in in the book I I recently published where, you know, it it became clear to me that you know, Joe Biden seeking another term was probably not in the best interest of the party or or the country. And I spoke to him directly about that and and bluntly about that. Once he made the decision to drop out with a hundred and
[00:21:38] whatever days to go, you know, there there were not many opportunities, I think, to have the kind of primary process that you're talking about. I think it is important to look forward, right? And not look backwards. And you said in the last election Democrats took a shellacking. Actually, if you look at 2025, it was the opposite. I mean, the president's party, the Republican Party, got beat in New Jersey, got beat in
[00:22:00] Virginia, got beat here in Pennsylvania where we won three state Supreme Court seats. So, obviously, there's a pendulum in in American politics. And it's clearly swinging back. I think what's important is is that we look forward. And yeah, I think it's also really important for our party to have for my party to have a real debate and to have a real discussion about ideas. What are we for? And what are we willing to fight for?
[00:22:25] And I realize that process may at times look a little messy. I realize and I mean this with the utmost respect. It gives folks like you on a podcast or on a show the ability to sort of pick apart, maybe try and, you know, sort of parse words or point one Democrat at another and try and create conflict. But I would just say that overall, having this debate and having these issues being raised and having disagreements,
[00:22:49] that's healthy for our party. And ultimately, I think our party's poised to take back power. And that will make us better at governing. To me, the whole purpose of running in an election is getting the chance to govern, not just winning the election. And so, having these debates right now puts us in a better position when we win those elections. And I'm running for re-election right now in Pennsylvania. Going to work my ass off to win another
[00:23:12] term and earn the support of the people of Pennsylvania again. And I want to continue to deliver, continue to um you know, focus on these issues that matter most. And having that debate, I think is really healthy. >> I understand looking forward is most important, but I got I got to go one more time in the rearview mirror here, which is Kamala Harris was picked because Biden had put out a criteria, &quot;Hey, I want to have a woman of color as
[00:23:33] my vice president.&quot; He was very explicit about that. She could be qualified, unqualified, you know, moderately qualified. But then when she went out to pick her VP, everybody was saying, &quot;Hey, Josh Shapiro should be really in that running.&quot; And she didn't pick you specifically cuz she didn't think she could win with the Jewish vice president. >> Yeah, >> So, >> I don't respectfully I I got to push
[00:23:54] back on that. And again, I I've been very very open about this. Yeah. >> Let's do it. >> Yeah, and and I respectfully I'm not looking to, you know, be argumentative with you, but I I >> Be candid. Yeah. >> I was very very detailed and and and very specific in my book about this process. And I was very grateful to the vice president for being considered. And grateful to her for the candid dialogue we had. And about 48 hours before she
[00:24:18] picked Tim Walz, I pulled out and made clear that that was not something I was interested in doing. I thought I could serve the good people of Pennsylvania um and and do my best serving here as governor in a job that I absolutely love. So, this wasn't about her not picking me because of my faith. Uh this was about me um in the end not being interested in in that job. >> Really? Sincerely, yes. Uh cuz it did seem like
[00:24:43] you wanted to to be considered for that VP position. >> I called Sunday evening after she and I met and had a really candid conversation uh to inform her that I did not want to be considered. I thought she had some really good people to choose from. >> All right. So, let's move forward then looking at winning. You're going to run for governor again. Assume that's going to be a shoe-in. You know, you got to do the work, but
[00:25:05] it's pretty clear you're going to >> your your confidence there, my man. >> Yeah, no, it's it's clear. But let's talk a little bit about if you were to run for president, which people seem to think you've got a really good shot. But you're below maybe national recognition right now. You're a little bit far behind. Gavin has come out, &quot;Hey, I'm running. I'm running. Here I am.&quot; He's obviously in the pole position
[00:25:28] for now. I want to understand the Democratic Party and how they should proceed because just like the right seemed to separate and you had this mega coalition and you had, you know, the traditional Republicans who were just aghast at Trump and his style and his behavior, etc. Now that seems to have fractured again. You have America first, America only. All the supporters who were supporting Trump now have come out vocally against him because of
[00:25:58] the war in Iran. And then you have on your side the socialist Democrat movement, which I think a lot of moderates are like, &quot;Well, that's confusing. We don't want to have more Mondamis.&quot; And that doesn't seem super appealing to a lot of moderates. And the moderates are the ones who flipped this election and they went the last election, they went with Trump largely as opposed to going with Kamala. So
[00:26:19] handicap for me, what has to happen in the Democratic Party to win in 2028? >> I understand what you're asking and I I will answer your question. I don't think anyone should be looking past these midterms. And while I appreciate the confidence you you have in me and and and maybe in the the broader dynamics here, I think we need to have a national referendum in these midterms on what people see happening in Washington, D.C.
[00:26:45] The the chaos and the corruption that exists there. I think people need to show up in record numbers and vote their concerns. Since I'm not looking past the midterms, I do think it is important that we acknowledge Donald Trump has injected chaos and corruption into everything he touched. And I think it's important for me, for other Democratic leaders in this country, to be able to show what calm, competent governance can
[00:27:15] actually deliver for people. That's what I'm going to be talking about in these midterms as I seek re-election. I think it is important to paint an alternative picture to the chaos Donald Trump has created. One where you can actually grow the economy. You can make our communities safer. We didn't talk about this yet, but we've hired 2,000 more police officers, invested in community violence prevention, and violent crime
[00:27:38] is down 12%. Fatal gun violence is down 42% in our Commonwealth. Um we've invested in public education, and by the way, scores are up, truancy is down. Um we're moving up on the list. We're about 10th um according to Consumer Affairs in the quality of public education. I think we've got to show that there is an alternative to Donald Trump's chaos, to his cruelty, to his corruption. And you're seeing that, um I think certainly
[00:28:05] in my state. I think you're seeing it in other states as well. And we need to paint that alternative picture. >> So, 2026 is certainly going to be a referendum on the first 2 years of this presidency, which was extremely popular for the first 9 months or so. People felt really good about the economy. >> Some people. >> And that Well, I think the his polling was great. But there was this tinge, I think it's pretty accurate to say, the
[00:28:30] tariffs felt like those were chaotic. >> Yeah. >> Then you get the ICE situation. That feels very chaotic. Then you go to this war with Iran, and that feels like a peak chaotic moment that we're in here in week six of this. So, it's certainly going to be a referendum on Trump, and it feels like all the Democrats have to do is sit back and say like, &quot;Look, is this what you want? Gas prices up, inflation.&quot; But you're saying they have
[00:28:55] to paint another picture. Paint that picture for me. What is that picture? >> I think on both sides of what you just said, Donald Trump chose to push the tariff button, right? >> Yeah. >> And as a result, here in Pennsylvania, what we're seeing is coffee prices are up 30%. Beef is up 19%. OJ, orange juice, is up 9%. The fertilizers my farmers rely on here in Pennsylvania up 36%. So, we're seeing whether you're a
[00:29:22] farmer, whether you're, you know, a dad just trying to cook dinner for his kids, whatever the case may be, everything costs more because of the the recklessness and the chaotic approach Donald Trump's taking on our economy with these tariffs. Obviously, this war has spiked gas prices. Up today about 415, 416 here in Pennsylvania, similar across the country. Probably years before those gas prices come down even
[00:29:48] if the war, you know, hopefully ends, you know, very very soon. And so, I think it is important, yes, to point that out the way Donald Trump's policies have hurt the American people, have hurt our farmers, have hurt our small businesses. The point I was making a moment ago is I think that's part of the conversation. The other part of the conversation is, &quot;Okay, well, what are you doing to make people's lives