[00:27:38] is down 12%. Fatal gun violence is down 42% in our Commonwealth. Um we've invested in public education, and by the way, scores are up, truancy is down. Um we're moving up on the list. We're about 10th um according to Consumer Affairs in the quality of public education. I think we've got to show that there is an alternative to Donald Trump's chaos, to his cruelty, to his corruption. And you're seeing that, um I think certainly
[00:28:05] in my state. I think you're seeing it in other states as well. And we need to paint that alternative picture. >> So, 2026 is certainly going to be a referendum on the first 2 years of this presidency, which was extremely popular for the first 9 months or so. People felt really good about the economy. >> Some people. >> And that Well, I think the his polling was great. But there was this tinge, I think it's pretty accurate to say, the
[00:28:30] tariffs felt like those were chaotic. >> Yeah. >> Then you get the ICE situation. That feels very chaotic. Then you go to this war with Iran, and that feels like a peak chaotic moment that we're in here in week six of this. So, it's certainly going to be a referendum on Trump, and it feels like all the Democrats have to do is sit back and say like, &quot;Look, is this what you want? Gas prices up, inflation.&quot; But you're saying they have
[00:28:55] to paint another picture. Paint that picture for me. What is that picture? >> I think on both sides of what you just said, Donald Trump chose to push the tariff button, right? >> Yeah. >> And as a result, here in Pennsylvania, what we're seeing is coffee prices are up 30%. Beef is up 19%. OJ, orange juice, is up 9%. The fertilizers my farmers rely on here in Pennsylvania up 36%. So, we're seeing whether you're a
[00:29:22] farmer, whether you're, you know, a dad just trying to cook dinner for his kids, whatever the case may be, everything costs more because of the the recklessness and the chaotic approach Donald Trump's taking on our economy with these tariffs. Obviously, this war has spiked gas prices. Up today about 415, 416 here in Pennsylvania, similar across the country. Probably years before those gas prices come down even
[00:29:48] if the war, you know, hopefully ends, you know, very very soon. And so, I think it is important, yes, to point that out the way Donald Trump's policies have hurt the American people, have hurt our farmers, have hurt our small businesses. The point I was making a moment ago is I think that's part of the conversation. The other part of the conversation is, &quot;Okay, well, what are you doing to make people's lives
[00:30:11] better?&quot; >> Yeah, well, so what what should the top three things be? Like, if you were running the Democratic Party and you and everybody got in a room and said, &quot;You know what? We really are going to take winning seriously, not get into this like purity test for everybody in the party, and you know, everybody's got to be perfect, and Joe Rogan's not good enough to go on air with because he's a lifelong Democrat, but he said something
[00:30:33] about COVID we don't agree with. Therefore, he's out of the party. Elon Musk is a little bit weird on the Well, but but the Democrats did. And then, oh, Elon Musk waited hours to and and had Obama at SpaceX and then all of a sudden he can't come to the White House for the EV Summit, the category he created. Like it's pretty obvious the Democratic Party had some real dysfunction in there in terms of building a bigger tent. And I
[00:30:55] can tell you I have never felt more courted in my life than the Republican Party trying to get me to be part of the the Trump movement, which I demurred and declined. It wasn't my style. But they are trying to build the biggest tent possible. They're like, &quot;Oh, you agree with 14% of what we do? You're in.&quot; >> Okay. >> Yeah, so walk me through what the top thing should be. Yeah. >> Let's dissect. First off, you attributed
[00:31:23] a number of things to Democrats that I didn't say. So, um we're you're here interviewing me, so let's focus on the things I say. Number two, um they went and they courted you uh and you demurred, but by the way, um even had you not demurred, had you signed up, I don't know that your life would be better off after a year and a half of Trump's policies. What I am for here in Pennsylvania, the ultimate swing state, the toughest state to win in, an
[00:31:49] incredibly tough state to govern in, particularly with a divided legislature, I'm for investing in public education, giving every child of God an opportunity. I'm for safe communities, and we're building that here, and we're reducing crime in all of our communities. I'm for a pro-growth economy, where we generate more energy, we generate more jobs, where we create more opportunities, particularly in our rural communities and forgotten
[00:32:13] communities that have been too often left behind. And here's the fourth thing I'm for. I am for freedom. And I'll tell you what, this president represents a party that used to be known as the party of freedom, and now they have turned their backs on that. They want to tell my kids what books they're allowed to read, they want to tell women what medicines they can take and what they can do with their bodies, they want to
[00:32:36] control the way I raise my child. They want to say, uh, you know, every day that, yeah, you can vote, but we're going to set the rules and try and rig them in a way where you're not going to be successful. They are not the party of freedom. And I think the Democratic Party has an opportunity to be the party of education, safety, economic opportunity, and freedom. That's what we're doing here in Pennsylvania, and that's what
[00:32:59] I'm going to continue to put forth. >> I think it's a great platform. I would add to it housing. The thing I hear about from young people all the time is that, you know, just I'll never be able to afford a house. The American dream's a bit of a scam, and college is overpriced. So, how do you think about housing? And And what do you Is that an issue in in your state? Or >> talk about housing. Let's also talk about college, cuz you raised both of
[00:33:22] them in your question. And >> And look, I mean, that has disinfected, by the way, just like two generations who are like, you guys tricked us on housing. You told us we'd be able to get home, and you won't sell your home, boomers. And And you told us we could always make more than our college education cost, and that was a lie, too. >> Yeah. When I was talking about economic opportunity, it's somewhat shorthand, if
[00:33:43] you will, for also being able to afford that community. Affording that community can be healthcare. It can be housing, right? But let's talk about housing. Here in Pennsylvania, I've asked the legislature for a $1 billion fund to be able to build more housing in Pennsylvania and repair existing housing. 50% of my housing was built prior to 1950. You can invest a few thousand bucks in a new boiler, a new roof, some new windows,
[00:34:08] actually keep people in their homes, and not have to build new homes. We also have to eliminate, or damn near eliminate, the red tape that exists when it comes to building housing. We got to be able to build this faster. And so, I put forth a regulatory reform plan to be able to build more housing. I think that is, um, really, really crucial. Let's talk about college for a minute. The first day I was governor, the first
[00:34:34] executive order I signed was to do away with the college degree requirement to work for state government. We have 80,000 employees, damn near all now you do not have to have a college degree other than say the doctors and lawyers and people like that who require advanced degrees. So now 60% 60 60% of all of our hires in state government don't have a college degree. We followed up on that by tripling our funding for
[00:35:00] votech and CTE in our high schools. Our dramatically increasing our funding for apprenticeship programs. 62% of my adult population here in Pennsylvania do not have a college degree. So we need to make sure we're investing in them so that they have opportunities. You want to go learn to be a welder? You're going to make six figures working in a shipyard in South Philadelphia. You want to go and you want to work on HVAC
[00:35:26] systems? You're going to work in some of our most complex life sciences construction jobs and you're going to make six figures doing that. So for us, we fundamentally believe that you've got many pathways to opportunity here in Pennsylvania. For some, it's going to college, great. And for others, if you choose not to go to college, that's also great. We're going to make sure that we pave the way for you and give you that
[00:35:50] opportunity. >> Yeah, the generation two about movement is well upon us. People are starting to figure out going in debt 100, 200k versus getting a plumber job, carpenter job, HVAC, whatever for six figures out of the gate is a much better opportunity. >> Yeah, and to be clear, I'm not on people that go to college. I went to college. I presume you went to go to college. But for too long, by the way, politicians in both parties defined
[00:36:16] success exclusively around the idea of you having to have a college degree and then set up arbitrary barriers to entry. Hey, if you don't have a college degree, you can't apply here. What about the skills that you developed in the military? What about the skills you developed at a trade school or the skills that you developed working in the private sector? Those skills should matter, and now they do in Pennsylvania. And we're no longer taking
[00:36:40] an elitist approach that shuts people out just because they don't have a college degree. We're giving them the keys to opportunity, and we're giving them opportunities to pursue more success here in Pennsylvania. >> Does the socialist democratic movement worry you, Mondami and the crew? And how do you think about that in terms of the party dynamics? >> I mean, remember the question you asked me out of three or four questions ago
[00:37:06] about you said, &quot;Well, yeah, I only agree with 14% of what you agree with.&quot; You know, come join the party. Look, my view is that we got to have a big tent. And my view is that we've got to have a real debate around different ideas. And just because I might not agree with you on these three things, I might agree with you on something else. Listen, >> Yeah. >> I'm sitting behind my desk here in the governor's office. This is where I
[00:37:27] negotiate bills and budgets and other things. If I threw everybody out of my office that I didn't agree with 100% of the time, we'd never get anything done. When I sit down across the table from a Republican lawmaker, I say, &quot;What are the 10 things you want to accomplish?&quot; I tell him the 10 things I want to accomplish. And you know what? We're not going to agree on all 10, but if we agree on three or four, I'd rather focus
[00:37:48] on those three or four things where we can find common ground than the five, six, seven things where we're just going to disagree. And so, I think if you want to make progress, you got to figure out how to create, you know, majorities. Whether it's a majority in the legislature to get a bill to my desk, a majority come election time to win an election, you got to find ways to bring people together and find common ground
[00:38:09] and not just focus exclusively on our differences. >> What's your take on what's going on in Congress, Senate in terms of Trump and getting alignment there? Because, hey, when you go to war or you do tariffs, um this was something we had a consultation between these different branches of our government. And we had other presidents on the Democrat side, etc., you know, say, &quot;Hey, we're going to just get rid of student loan. I'm
[00:38:33] doing an executive order.&quot; Curious your take on the balance of our of our different branches of government and the lack of collaboration because this is particularly disturbing. We're both Gen Xers. We grew up watching the Democrats and the Republicans argue, but then they all got together, had lunch, and they negotiated. Where is that esprit de corps of everybody rowing in the same direction uh for all Americans versus
[00:38:58] this toxic, you know, we're we're just going to block each other at and do character assassination at every single turn. It's it's the most polarized of our lifetimes, for sure. >> think the Congress of the United States, um the leadership there, I mean, they're frankly kind of sad, pathetic people. And let me explain why, right? You put um what's his name, Johnson in as a speaker, and he's effectively a rubber stamp for
[00:39:27] anything Donald Trump wants. And by the way, whether you agree with Trump or not, I think you can agree that you'd like your member of Congress to at least meet the burdens that they have on them in the Constitution of the United States, which is to be a check, which is to be a a separate branch of government, and a branch of government that has meaningful responsibilities here. When the Congress of the United
[00:39:52] States walks away from their responsibilities, whether on tariffs or whether on declaring war, and ultimately just kind of empower the president, again, agree or disagree. Obviously, I have profound disagreements from the president on on those things. Then what what you've really done is you've limited um the power of the Congress. And what you've really done is you've seen a whole bunch people that put Donald Trump before the oath of
[00:40:18] office they take to the Constitution. And I think that's just pathetic. By the way, why these people work so hard to get to Congress, to move up in leadership, to do all the things they got to do, and then give away their power to Donald Trump? That's pathetic and it's weak. And I think our country is suffering as a result of it. Look, I'm here in Pennsylvania where where it all began 250 years ago. And the brilliance of our founders
[00:40:46] um was that they left so much of the work to the next generation and the generation after that to pick up the baton and continue to perfect our union. Our founders though always contemplated two things. One, that there would be honorable people in office. And two, that the people in office would exercise their power and be a check on one another. And in some cases slow things down to make sure that bad things didn't occur.
[00:41:21] Bad things couldn't get through the process. I think what Americans are confronting now is a realization that we don't really have all honorable people in positions of authority in the federal government. And that that checks and balance system that was constructed here in Pennsylvania is not standing the test of time because you've got these profoundly and pathetically weak people like Johnson and others who just simply
[00:41:47] give away their power to folks who are corrupt and to folks who are not acting in an honorable way. >> You keep uh bringing up that corruption. Explain to me what corrupt things you know that the Trump administration has done. >> I think to me there has been an extraordinary amount of self-dealing. There there has been um a good bit of family members doing quite well in this uh in this environment. I think you're seeing more
[00:42:16] and more people who have the president's ear being able to lobby him at his swim club to get a pardon for someone that frankly doesn't deserve a pardon. I mean, I think the list goes on and on and on, but those are some examples that I think the American people see with their own eyes taking a you know, a billion-dollar jet from the Qataris and thinking there's nothing attached to that, right? I mean, I think that
[00:42:39] there's just a lot of that that moves so fast that the American people are having a hard time keeping up with it, but there will be a reckoning on this one. >> Yeah, I so on the pardons I'm strongly agreeing. Feels like the pardon power is super abused. Is is there a path to refine that tool cuz it relies on norms, right? And ever since Bill Clinton, you know, did some, you know, friends and then obviously Biden did his son and
[00:43:08] then Trump's doing his, you know, folks. It feels like now this is just a get out of jail card. You come into an administration and then everybody from Fauci to you know, Hunter Biden and everybody else is just going to get a pardon on the way out. How would you reshape that tool? >> Well, let let's be clear and I I don't think you're suggesting this, but and I was critical of Joe Biden when he pardoned his son, right? I was critical
[00:43:33] of him publicly. What we are seeing under Donald Trump, you have to admit, is next level when it comes to the abuse. >> it's yes, it's in the first year. It's not on the last day even. It's like an ongoing tool here. We had CZ who was a a crypto person who got pardoned and Trump didn't even know who he was. Right. He was just like, &quot;Ah, I heard he's a good guy.&quot; >> I mean, I will tell I sit at this desk
[00:43:56] here and I sign pardons and clemencies. And I take that responsibility so seriously. And and I agonize over these decisions. And and I pray that I get these decisions right. And I believe I have. And I'm transparent about why I viewed someone as worthy to get a clemency and also worthy of not getting one or not worthy I should say but but also not earning one. And these are tough tough decisions. Goes back to what I said a