[00:00:00] All right, everybody. We've got an incredible guest today. Governor Josh Shapiro is here. Obviously governor of Pennsylvania. He's got uh record-setting popularity in Pennsylvania right now. 60% approval, at least. He's a moderate. Uh he's focused on getting done, GSD. He's tough on crime. Ranked number one, according to my notes, on charging Medicaid fraud. He's pro data center. He's got a nuanced take on Israel. And he's a baller,
[00:00:28] apparently. Cuts the table. Got him. Very nice. >> god. >> There's your governor. >> Look at those short shorts. Holy cow. >> Got him. Wow. It's the late '80s. >> Man, based on the VHS tape, this looks like the '80s. >> Yeah, that was 1990, I think. >> Look at that, playing the point. >> There you go. >> Very nice. Very nice. All right. >> That was back when That was back when people shot mid-range jumpers. They
[00:00:58] don't do that anymore, man. They don't do that. They should. >> All threes. Yeah, I mean, we have a couple of players and and we were talking before the show started. You're a obviously a big Philly fan and I'm a big Knicks fan, so I will see you at the games. We're We're on a collision course. >> I, by the way, with all due respect, and I hope we have a good conversation here. I hope to never see you at the games.
[00:01:17] Cuz if you're showing up in Philly with all your Knicks crap on, I'm not going to be a happy guy. >> Oh, look at a selfie courtside with my friend Dave, who is one of the co-owners of the team, who's a mutual friend of ours. Um who I think egged you on a little bit to come on the program here. >> He did. He should go on All In. They have thoughtful conversations and anxious to have one with you. So, thanks for having
[00:01:40] me. >> Yeah. There's so much for us to talk about, but I I thought I would start with your track record in Pennsylvania. And the reason I wanted to start there is because there's a bit of a collision course happening right now between you and Gavin. Gavin's got what I would describe as a variable um tenure here in California. Um I left California for Texas cuz I just thought it was a bit of a disaster, but you're doing great in
[00:02:02] your state and that's in the face of New York, my hometown, New Jersey, Boston, like losing a lot of business leaders. And you've been scoring, you know, some big wins. So, when you look at your track record, maybe you could just educate the audience on what you've gotten done and maybe in comparison to what's happening in those other states with other democratic leaders cuz you seem to be maybe the exception to this rule that
[00:02:31] Democrats aren't getting it done on a business level. >> Look, I'm proud of what we've done. I'm not in comparison with Gavin or any other democratic governor. I'll just talk about what we've done here in Pennsylvania. We are a pro-growth state. We want businesses to come here and grow. I'm proud of the fact that we've created more jobs in all but two states in the entire country. We've cut taxes seven different times to be more
[00:02:55] competitive, cut taxes for small businesses, also for families trying to afford child care, for seniors, for working Pennsylvanians. We've taken our permitting process, that's the usually the ticket you need say to build your building, right? If you're trying to build something here in Pennsylvania, we were bottom five in the country. I think we're now a national model, easily top five in terms of speed. We've got a
[00:03:18] money-back guarantee on all of our permits. If we don't get you your permit in time, we'll give you your money back. And fun fact, we did issue 40 million permits during my time as governor. We've only had to issue five refunds, meaning only five of those permits were late. We are now the only growing economy in the northeastern part of the United States. At the same time, we're investing in workforce development,
[00:03:42] especially if you don't have a college degree, tripling funding for Vo-Tech and apprenticeship programs, and understanding the need to take the workforce we have today and prepare them for um jobs here in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. I'm proud that we've got an unemployment rate below the national rate consistently over the last 32 months. I think it is really critical that every kid born in Pennsylvania gets
[00:04:07] a great quality education, that that kid has a safe street to walk down to get to school or wherever else they're going, and that they've got a job in the community that they love. Those to me are the core foundational principles. It's what we focus on every single day. Our mantra, as you said at the top, is GSD, get done. Those are the areas where we focus on getting done, and I think we're putting a lot of points on
[00:04:29] the board every single day that's having a meaningful difference in people's lives. >> How are you getting that done? Let's just take the permitting as an example. Why is it so dysfunctional in California? You know, obviously I'm an investor in technology companies, and we just saw red tape after red tape, then on housing. It's incredibly hard to build anything. The NIMBYism, you know, if you cast a shadow, nothing can be built, and then
[00:04:53] housing prices keep going up. And you know, if you want to hire a nanny or a teacher, or you know, if a firefighter moves in, they can't even afford a home in the community that they're servicing. So, how did you fix this? And why can't other states not fix it? >> I mean, look, I I can't speak to how it's done in California. I'll just tell you in Pennsylvania, the way we start the conversation is by recognizing
[00:05:19] permits are critically important to economic development and to creating jobs, right? If we, the government, can move at the speed of business, if I can give you as a CEO predictability to know your business is going to be open in 6 months instead of 3 years, right? Because the permit took too long, then you're going to want to invest here. So, we sort of start with the important idea that permits matter. Second, when you
[00:05:44] come into our state government to get your permit, let's just use a building as an example, right? We want to get to yes. We still want to protect the environment and public health and public safety, and we do that, but we want to get to yes. So, our attitude has shifted. Third, we've got to have that money-back guarantee cuz that money-back guarantee holds the bureaucracy accountable. Now, I will tell you that some of this we've
[00:06:08] done administratively, meaning I've signed executive orders and we've made those changes. But, in other things, we've worked with the legislature to pass new laws to speed up our permitting. And it hasn't always been easy. Understand, I'm a Democrat as governor. I've got a divided legislature. I was the only governor for a while with a divided legislature, now there's one other. I've got a Senate led by Republicans by just two seats and a
[00:06:31] house led by Democrats by just one seat. But, this is an area where I've been able to bring Democrats and Republicans together in order to make progress in terms of passing this this permitting reform. And again, proof is in the pudding. What we are seeing is that businesses are coming here and the economy's growing. Let me give you one more example. This may seem really small to you, but it's a big deal, okay? When I talk about a permit,
[00:06:56] if you want to be a barber in Pennsylvania, you need a permit or technically it's called a license, but I put it all in one >> Yeah, some kind of certificate, yeah. >> Right. The day I took office, it took 20 days for a barber to get their permit to be able to go out and cut hair. Today, you get it same day. You get it within that day. That may seem silly to you, but but it but I just I called my barber. I asked him, he said, &quot;How many
[00:07:19] heads do you cut a day?&quot; He said, &quot;About 10 a day.&quot; At 20 bucks a pop, 200 bucks a day for two for 20 days. That's real money. That's thousands of dollars that we're putting into that barber's pocket just because we got them their permit more quickly. So, I know it may sound nerdy, it may sound wonky, but whether you're building some big building that's going to house hundreds of workers or thousands of people who are living
[00:07:46] there. Or whether you're the local barber that everybody needs to go to to get to get their haircut. This stuff matters. And the quicker you are, the more jobs you create and the more money you put in people's pockets. >> It also matters, I think, on a philosophical basis of who is the government working for? Themselves and their timelines or for the people who put them in office? And I think that's the philosophy just at least watching it
[00:08:10] happen in New York and California is the opposite of what you described. There's no sense of urgency and there's almost a situation where people believe it's intractable, that they can't change it. And so that's I think such an important point is that you actually made it happen. >> I think that's a great point. I want to focus on what you just said there. Um first off, I I start the conversation believing the government can be a force
[00:08:34] for good in people's lives. Second, that we got to figure out a way to get to yes. Whether it's building the building or whether it's getting that mom the support she needs for her kid with autism who needs support. We got to figure out a way to get to yes and get them um that help. And then you mentioned uh in your question the way people get I I I don't recall if you used the word frustrated or or they feel, you know, um that that
[00:08:58] government's sort of holding them back, right? Not trying to work with them. >> in a way, right? It's just if you have that experience three or four times, whether it's at the airport or getting your driver's license or getting the hair cutting you know, certificate. Like it's just oppressive over time. You just feel like the government's working against you. >> Yeah, and what does that what does that person feel after they try and get their
[00:09:17] permit, they can't get it. They try and open up their small business, it won't work. They get frustrated. By the way, they get pissed. And then not only are they pissed at that agency or that governor or they're pissed at, you know, that state government. They also grow, and this is an important point, a little more cynical about government and a little bit more frustrated about the process. And when that happens, I think
[00:09:42] that that creates more distrust in our system and it creates more opportunity for I think frankly dark voices on extremes to come in and take advantage of people. I I I find that, you know, if we get it done the right way, if we process things quickly, if we get people to yes, then maybe a byproduct of that is a little bit less cynicism in our system. >> Yeah, and and the horseshoe theory that you're kind of referencing there, these
[00:10:08] two extremes just taking over the conversation, that's not what the majority of the country wants. They they want to just live in a high-functioning society. I was curious how you look at fraud, um, waste, fraud, and abuse. My friend Elon, to drop a name, you know, did this doge thing, was a little controversial, but I think what we've seen is, hey, 20-30% of every tax dollar collected is wasted. Some of it's fraud, some of it's just
[00:10:36] incompetence. It could be anything on that spectrum. And this seems to be the Republican Party's rallying cry to beat the Democrats going into California, and prosecuting people, Michigan, etc. You have seem to have gotten ahead of this. You've been doing this for years. So, maybe you could explain your take on fighting fraud specifically, health care, or in other areas. >> Yeah. Look Look, I think we've got to
[00:11:00] focus on rooting fraud out of the system. Now, you and I may differ on, hey, should we spend a dollar on that initiative or not? And by the way, those are super healthy differences, and we should argue that out. We should debate that. But where we should have no difference is if someone's stealing that dollar instead of going to its intended purpose, we should be against that. And and I am. Prior to serving as governor
[00:11:24] and having the privilege of sitting here, uh, in this office serving the good people of Pennsylvania, I was the state's attorney general. And you'll remember back during COVID, there were those PPP loans to help our small businesses and other businesses stay afloat. We'd probably agree like good idea, right? We got to keep businesses afloat. But during that time I went out and prosecuted a whole bunch of people for
[00:11:46] stealing that PPP money, for not using it for its intended purposes. Here as governor, I've maintained a similar focus through my office of Inspector General, rooting out fraud through making sure by the way, we're not fronting you money when you're going out and providing say human services. You have to submit for reimbursements and you've got to make sure you prove that you did that work. When we find that
[00:12:10] someone took advantage of the system, we're referring them to prosecutors. I'm proud of the fact that we've had more Medicaid fraud prosecutions in Pennsylvania than I think any other state. Maybe there was one other. We're we're certainly toward the top of that list. Proud of the fact that we've identified that, we've sent it to prosecutors and and we've addressed it. If we can address it administratively, we do. If not, we understand that those
[00:12:31] things need to be prosecuted. We should have a zero tolerance policy for that. We should make sure that if we're going to utilize a hard-earned dollar of a taxpayer for a purpose like providing someone with health care that they need, we got to make sure that that dollar makes its way to that person so they get their health care. And you know, our folks are working really hard on that in Pennsylvania. >> So pro-business,
[00:12:55] uh less regulation, lowering taxes, eliminating fraud, um and all of this is just getting done in the state. And then you know, the next piece that in at least my community, people who are creators of businesses, venture capitalists, angel investors, founders, we pay our taxes, pay a lot of taxes uh depending on which state you live in. And then there's this movement >> paying more taxes in Pennsylvania, man.
[00:13:22] Stop paying them elsewhere. >> Yeah. It well, the and you know, we then get struck with this California law and a lot of my friends have moved to Austin where I live now. They just said suddenly, hey, we want to seize 5% of whatever you got. You already paid your taxes, you haven't paid capital gains on some of this equity you own in your company. Maybe it's paper wealth, maybe it's your company went public now and
[00:13:44] you could sell some of it, but you might crater the stock if you do. And Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, and California all trying to seize assets. And this has really hit the creator the business creators in a in a really offensive way to the point at which they're moving. We lost California lost Sergey, Travis from Uber just fleeing fleeing en masse in the last 12 months. Do you believe in these wealth taxes and do you believe in
[00:14:17] seizing people's assets on gains they've never received? It's It seems to be getting momentum. >> I mean, I'll just tell you we've cut taxes seven times in Pennsylvania. We've got one of the lowest income taxes in the entire country. It's why I'm joking with you you should come to Pennsylvania and locate here. And And look, I mean, that kind of tax that you're describing is not something we have here. It's certainly not
[00:14:41] something on on my agenda. I do think people need to pay their fair share. I think you'd agree with that. We need to make sure that we are easing the burden on those who are working and who are at the lowest, you know, sort of economic point on the scale. And we got to make sure that folks at the top are paying their their fair share in order to to sustain our society. And I think we've struck a a really good
[00:15:03] balance here in Pennsylvania. And I think our growth numbers bear that out. I think seeing more people coming to the state bears that out. And I think there's an important stat, one of the things you you cited in those entrepreneurs as as you were going through your question is you know, these are people who kind of started with a dream, with an idea that, you know, someone might have looked at and said, &quot;Geez, I I don't know about
[00:15:27] that.&quot; But they stuck with it and and they built up their companies. We see here in Pennsylvania, particularly when it comes to life sciences, right? We're seeing people plant a flag here in Pennsylvania, start with an idea that others might think, &quot;Boy, I I don't know about that.&quot; But then because of our tax environment in Pennsylvania, because of our pro-growth approach in Pennsylvania, we're seeing more of those small
[00:15:51] businesses, more of those small companies, especially in life sciences, survive that sort of valley where a lot of those companies go out of business and sustain themselves here because again, I think we're showing that we're pro-growth, we've got a smart tax environment for them. And by the way, after we invest in them, after we give them a shot, and after they do well, we expect them to pay their fair share back