[00:41:47] give away their power to folks who are corrupt and to folks who are not acting in an honorable way. >> You keep uh bringing up that corruption. Explain to me what corrupt things you know that the Trump administration has done. >> I think to me there has been an extraordinary amount of self-dealing. There there has been um a good bit of family members doing quite well in this uh in this environment. I think you're seeing more
[00:42:16] and more people who have the president's ear being able to lobby him at his swim club to get a pardon for someone that frankly doesn't deserve a pardon. I mean, I think the list goes on and on and on, but those are some examples that I think the American people see with their own eyes taking a you know, a billion-dollar jet from the Qataris and thinking there's nothing attached to that, right? I mean, I think that
[00:42:39] there's just a lot of that that moves so fast that the American people are having a hard time keeping up with it, but there will be a reckoning on this one. >> Yeah, I so on the pardons I'm strongly agreeing. Feels like the pardon power is super abused. Is is there a path to refine that tool cuz it relies on norms, right? And ever since Bill Clinton, you know, did some, you know, friends and then obviously Biden did his son and
[00:43:08] then Trump's doing his, you know, folks. It feels like now this is just a get out of jail card. You come into an administration and then everybody from Fauci to you know, Hunter Biden and everybody else is just going to get a pardon on the way out. How would you reshape that tool? >> Well, let let's be clear and I I don't think you're suggesting this, but and I was critical of Joe Biden when he pardoned his son, right? I was critical
[00:43:33] of him publicly. What we are seeing under Donald Trump, you have to admit, is next level when it comes to the abuse. >> it's yes, it's in the first year. It's not on the last day even. It's like an ongoing tool here. We had CZ who was a a crypto person who got pardoned and Trump didn't even know who he was. Right. He was just like, &quot;Ah, I heard he's a good guy.&quot; >> I mean, I will tell I sit at this desk
[00:43:56] here and I sign pardons and clemencies. And I take that responsibility so seriously. And and I agonize over these decisions. And and I pray that I get these decisions right. And I believe I have. And I'm transparent about why I viewed someone as worthy to get a clemency and also worthy of not getting one or not worthy I should say but but also not earning one. And these are tough tough decisions. Goes back to what I said a
[00:44:29] moment ago. Our founders when they vested that kind of authority in an executive didn't necessarily do something wrong by giving the executive that power. But they were leaning on the assumption that the executive would be honorable. That the executive would would would do this with morality and real scruples in mind and and I think what we're seeing with the president is if you sidle up to him at his swim club
[00:44:53] you donate a certain amount of money maybe or you have his ear for some other social reason, you can usually get him to give a pardon to someone who's important to you. >> Yeah, the the pardons definitely are super troubling. How do you deal with the family members and the kids enriching themselves? Obviously nothing has been um done by a court or an investigation into Trump's kids at this point. Um so we just want to be clear about that. You
[00:45:21] know, we had uh Hunter Biden getting a ridiculous million-dollar board seat. I've never seen anybody get paid a million dollars to be on a board. That was obviously corrupt in some way or somebody trying to curry favor. Doesn't mean the president Biden was but definitely was corruption there. How do you deal with kids of and and this has been going on for a while um these kind of allegations. If we if we can't rely on honor and
[00:45:45] norms is there another proposal here that the kids of you know, people in office can't make money. Your kids can't make money. If I was running for office, my kids couldn't make money in the free market. How do you Is there any kind of solution you can think of? >> I think it is important. You you cited Hunter Biden. They went through a legal process. There was an investigation by the Department of Justice. I think there
[00:46:07] has to be a real look, I say this as a former prosecutor, a real look at some of this stuff and follow the evidence, follow the law. And if charges are warranted, bring them in. By the way, if charges are not warranted, don't bring them. Do not use the the rule of law as a tool to go against, you know, political opponents in in any way. But I think what you've got to have here are people who are operating with real
[00:46:31] morality. And you do have to figure out a way to operate within the norms again. I'm unwilling to accept that that is gone. It may be temporarily suspended under Donald Trump, but I'm hopeful that we can find our way back to that. Let me be clear about something else here. That finding our way back to that is a bipartisan exercise. It's going to require Republicans and Democrats and independents all demanding, when they go
[00:46:56] to the ballot box, that we want to elevate people who are ethical, people who are honest, people who are focused on doing their jobs with integrity. And then when those people are in office, rewarded with the votes of the public and in these positions of public trust to hold them accountable as well. >> And you believe that can can happen in a post-Trump world? >> I do. I do. I strongly agree. Hey, it's a year since your home was firebombed
[00:47:24] by an insane person who was anti-Semitic. Your faith comes up over and over again. I personally think people are a little obsessed with it, but here we are and the Democratic Party's been split apart as well over this support of Israel issue. You have a very nuanced position. Number one, how are you dealing with that personally, the anti-Semitism, which to me as somebody who grew up in Brooklyn with lots of Jewish friends and
[00:47:49] all kinds of different people, just insane to think that Jewish students are being or any particular group of students being chased by the other students at Columbia University because they're Jewish and this chaoticness um is just heartbreaking, but as a Jewish person and literally experiencing it firsthand, I mean, how are you doing with that? >> Yeah, I appreciate it. Look, we we should separate this and have two
[00:48:12] conversations. One about Israel and one about anti-Semitism because you kind of blurred both in that question. Let's focus first on anti-Semitism. I have been very outspoken about those who are engaging in anti-Semitism, peddling words that are anti-Semitic. And importantly, I've been critical of people on the political left and on the political right. And I think anti-Semitism is a problem in our society and is a problem on the left and
[00:48:37] it is a problem on the right. And I think it is important that we call it out. We call it out whether we're in an interview, not >> Yeah. A conversation. >> a conversation, yeah. Call it out when um you know, on on social media. And then we just call it out in our communities, in our daily lives where we see it. On that, there should be no nuance. We should be able to come together, people who are Jewish, people
[00:49:00] who are Christian, Muslim, and all agree that hatred, bigotry in any form directed at a Jew, a Muslim, Christian, anyone, it has no place. And by the way, it makes us all less safe. And so we have to focus on speaking out against that. No nuance on that. >> Yeah. >> On the issue of Israel, the Middle East, and the war in Iran, and Gaza, there's a lot of nuance there. I'm happy to answer your questions on that, but I think on
[00:49:25] the issue of anti-Semitism, we have got to be in a place where we universally condemn it. And I think what you're seeing from some folks on the right and some folks on the left is they'll only call it out if it's said by a political opponent or someone they disagree with. And I frankly respect people on the right like Ted Cruz who have called it out within the Republican Party. I've tried to call it out when it rears its
[00:49:51] ugly head in my party, it is important that it be universally condemned. >> So easy to do. Let's tackle the uh issue of Israel and I would say, yeah, every Jewish person, Jewish-American person who I know, when I ask them about this issue, obviously, incredible tragedy October 7th, going and collecting the hostages seems like a reasonable thing to do. I was there for 9/11, you know, seems like a pretty analogous situation.
[00:50:20] This has to be settled and the United States went and did what it had to do in Afghanistan and took out Iraq for extra measure. Um it's a whole other diversion. But, 100% of folks say they don't agree with Netanyahu's approach to what happened in Gaza. And then, folks feel a decent number of people, whether it's reality or not, that America's getting dragged into this war with Iran not under false pretenses uh and because Israel is pushing us to
[00:50:48] do it. So, let's take these two issues separately and I'm just curious in understanding your position on this. Are you part of the Jewish-American diaspora that believes, &quot;Hey, Israel has a right to defend itself, but maybe Gaza went too far.&quot; >> Okay. Well, first off, um let me say this. I don't view this issue as a Jewish-American, as you said. I view this issue as an American. And I view this issue in a way of trying to
[00:51:15] understand what is the best thing for America, which to me is having peace and stability in the Middle East. Okay? That's how I approach these issues. It is um and I've been clear and consistent about this long before October 7th, that I think Netanyahu, the leader of Israel, um is someone who's been leading Israel down a dangerous and isolated path. I think he has made Israel um more isolated in the world community. He has
[00:51:48] fractured really what used to be a non-partisan or bipartisan um American support for Israel. And I think he has put Israel in a very dangerous place. And of course, he was the leader of Israel who wasn't minding the shop when October 7th happened. So, I've been very critical of Netanyahu for years and years and years. I've also for years made very clear that I think the America's interest in the region should be for stability and
[00:52:18] peace. And that it would be my hope that you would have two states living peacefully side by side, Israel and a Palestinian state. Now, I realize that is a long way off given where we are right now. But it is clear that we need to work toward that. And obviously, that Palestinian state cannot be led by Hamas, which is a terrorist organization. And there has to be some structure that is put in place in order in order to create that. As it relates
[00:52:49] to the war, which you also asked about in in your question, I mean, this was a war of choice. The president never defined the objectives. It is clear that I don't know how the hell to get out of this. Um we'll see what he ultimately does with his big threats. You know, we're we're recording this on the eve of his, you know, of his big uh threat um using language >> using language that was so offensive, you'll excuse my language,
[00:53:16] that diminished the value of human life. Um we'll see what he ultimately does. Does he chicken out as he usually does, or does, God forbid, he he go through with that? This was a war of choice. He didn't know why he got into it. He didn't know how the hell to get out of it. America's >> get into it, handicap? >> America's national security interests have not been well served by this. And economically, you've talked about this.
[00:53:41] Economically, we are worse off uh because of this war. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to speak over you. >> no, no. I mean, listen, I I appreciate your candidness, Governor. Why did he do it? If you had to handicap it, or what are you hearing when you talk cuz you have obviously a lot more information than the average American? >> Why now? Why did we do this now? We had done, you know, the strategic trimming of the hedges, mowing of the lawn,
[00:54:05] whatever the term is to get rid of the nuclear progress. That's containment seemed like a perfect strategy, and then all of a sudden we decide we're going to do regime change. This is after Trump promised that he would never get it in would do an intervention like this in the Middle East. This is after we were told by the Republicans do not vote for a crazy Democrat who will take us to war with Iran, and here we are in month 14
[00:54:30] or 13 of the Trump presidency, and he started a war. >> Yeah. >> His own biggest advocates, from Megyn Kelly to Tucker Carlson and, you know, people on the fringe, Alex Jones, and everybody in the middle, the comedians who supported him, the podcast diaspora, or the podcast bros, they're all fleeing the ship. They did not want this. So, here we are. Why did he do this? Why now? What is your handicapping of it?
[00:54:54] >> Well, I I'll answer that. I will just say it's yet another broken promise to the people who put him in power. He screwed over the farmers who put him in power. He told people he wouldn't slash Medicaid. He cut Medicaid. He told people he'd bring down prices. Prices have skyrocketed because of his tariffs. He He's got this long string of broken promises. Now, why did he break this particular promise? Let's Let's examine the record. First,
[00:55:21] Rubio went out and said he did it because if we didn't move then, Netanyahu was going to move and was going to force our hand. Then they walked it back. He said 7 or 8 months ago that they destroy their nuclear capabilities, and then came back 7 or 8 months later and said, &quot;We had to go in because we had to destroy their nuclear capabilities.&quot; I don't know. Then they said it was about regime change. Well,
[00:55:46] great. I mean, we went from like an 80-something-year-old Ayatollah to a 60-something-year-old Ayatollah who, by all accounts, um seems to be far more hardline. I'd hardly call that successful regime change. So, to me, it is hard to think you've seen I've been trying to be very forthright in answering your questions. >> You're doing good. >> know how you answer that question because the president never answered
[00:56:11] that question. He never sat in the Oval Office and looked the American people in the eye and said, &quot;This is why we're going in.&quot; And you know what? This isn't semantics. This isn't politics. If you don't know why you're going in, you don't know how the hell to get out. You don't know how to instruct the military, our brave military, including those 13 souls who did not make it home to their families because they went on a mission
[00:56:37] that the president never defined. And we mourn their loss. We thank our military heroes for what they did. We thank our military who are out working every day on behalf of our freedom, and our safety, and our security. But they deserve a commander in chief who would have defined the mission. And if you define the mission, you know how to get out. He never defined the mission. I don't know, ultimately, if he will
[00:57:00] follow through on his threat. Again, it's, you know, it's Tuesday afternoon you and I are talking. We'll see ultimately what he does here. But, um to me, this has been a failed and compromised mission from the beginning because he never made clear why he was going in. >> Yeah, and I know you got to go in a moment. It does seem to me that first explanation, sometimes people hear their first reaction and their first statement
[00:57:22] is the true statement, uh just in general. And it does seem like Israel was going to do this, and we joined them, and we didn't need to. And to your point about Afghanistan, should never pardon me, America should never be led around by any other nation. It should always be about America's interest, our national security interest, the interest of expanding freedom and opportunity for the American people. We should never, ever be bullied
[00:57:47] as maybe President Trump was by any other world leader. >> Back to the anti-Semitism we're experiencing now, you said, &quot;Hey, let's address them separately.&quot; But I don't think you can separate them if we're getting pulled into this war by another nation and people believe, like you and I do, &quot;Hey, Netanyahu maybe went a little too far here.&quot; That is what's causing the anti-Semitism in this country, don't you think? This
[00:58:12] relationship with Israel, the state of Israel and Netanyahu >> I think I think you have to be >> support for Netanyahu, that's not causing the anti-Semitism here. That's what these young people seem to be saying is, &quot;We don't want to vote for somebody who supports Netanyahu.&quot; >> Well, I think you have to be real careful on that. You you the collective, not you individually. I mean, if you're suggesting say that Jews are Israel and
[00:58:36] reflect Israeli policies and support everything Israel does. I mean, that's one of the oldest anti-Semitic tropes out there, this sort of notion of dual loyalty. I think it is fair to vote on the issue of do we support what Donald Trump is doing relative to Netanyahu. That's fair. But to suggest that somehow it's, you know, because Jews are tied to Israel and that's why >> Well, you and I can parse this issue, I