[00:15:35] on the justice side, too. If people commit crimes and there's no consequences, it's a nice early indicator. So you can kind of watch you can watch these things and say is truth winning today or is it losing? >> Is justice winning today or is it losing? And what is the trajectory will tell you? Are we going to get worse? Are we going to get better? >> Right. Co makes and the Fouchy case now we're seeing a lot more information come
[00:16:03] out. We have a really hard time getting the truth and maybe we'll get justice eventually. It seems like we're getting a little more truth 5 years later, but it's like a perfect example of what you're discussing. Yeah, >> there's a lot packed into that, but you can unpack it. If we had a lot of time, we could unpack it. But those become the sort of atomic things that you look at. And then the other thing I'd say, and
[00:16:22] and some people get a little surprised when I say this, which is communism is in is in all of us. Communism is in is in our blood as humans. And people go, &quot;What the hell are you talking about? You're crazy. What do you mean?&quot; Well, I'm like,&quot;Well, have you have you ever in your life been lazy?&quot; And everybody's like, &quot;Yes, I've been lazy in my life before.&quot; I said, &quot;Have you ever in your life wanted something
[00:16:50] for nothing?&quot; Yeah. The difference is, do you make that a way of life? And when you have ecosystems that essentially allow you to do both of those things without consequence, those ecosystems get a critical mass and start taking hold. And I think that's what we're seeing. >> Well said. Yeah, I think it's well said. Uh Gavin, I I know you uh I don't know you to talk too much about politics, but talk about markets, but these two things
[00:17:18] do relate, I think. So give us the economic perspective here on why this is happening because obviously different generations have had different economic experiences. So I don't want to lead the witness here but I have had conversations with you about this before. >> Yeah. Well so I do think um I obviously AI is I think going to be the defining political issue of the midterms and for sure the the next presidential election.
[00:17:47] But I feel like what is going on with the DSA is really a fusion of two things. So, the Democratic Party, I I I was a Democrat for most of my life, and it was the party of the working-class people that was trying to create opportunities, you know, maybe level out um equality, you know, help black Americans, help Hispanic Americans. And, you know, you can agree or disagree with their methods, but I think those
[00:18:16] are all noble goals. And to a large extent, none of those are really present in the DSA. None of them. If you look at who voted for which candidate, the pe the voting base of the DSA are relatively wealthy white liberals who are downwardly mobile. They're losing votes with working-class people. They're losing votes with poor people. They're losing votes with black Americans. They're losing votes with Hispanic Americans
[00:18:51] and those, you know, the the people that the Democratic Party, I think, for a long time tried and whether they failed or succeeded is up to tried to represent and give a voice to, they are not of interest to the DSA. And I think the DSA is is dangerous. It's tragic that we are electing profoundly anti-American candidates who in some cases have called for violence uh to eradicate America. And I just think there's there's a whole
[00:19:25] class of people who went to an elite school. They grew up in really nice circumstances and uh instead of going into industry, they went into this kind of giant NGO nonprofit machine and their outcomes have been very different from people who did productive things for the world. You know, I've said on this show many times, Elon has done more to decarbonize the planet than every activist combined. >> Yeah. times 10 by the way
[00:20:00] >> times 10. And I think these NOS's and the fact that the government is increasingly outsourcing a lot of funding to them is a really big part of this problem and they are pursuing policies. You know, I think we maybe talked about it last time, but the curly effect, a mayor of Boston, you pursue policies that you know are going to be disastrous for this your constituents, but they drive out your rivals. And then you can give jobs,
[00:20:33] $600,000 a year jobs, run an NGO that does nothing productive to your friends and allies. And it's really organized corruption happening at a massive scale. >> You know, the one thing, whatever, whatever you want to say about the Trump administration, a lot of people are up in arms about this, you know, new plane he's getting from the Qataris. >> Well, well, one, sounds like we needed a new plane, but two, it's right there for
[00:21:00] you to see. I think there are tens of billions, maybe hundreds of billions of these payments flowing to these NOS's. And if you look in California and New York, it's um like I think the per capita spending on homelessness has more than doubled and it's all gone to NOS's and outcomes have gotten worse. In California, it's like quadrupled and outcomes have gotten worse. So, I think this is this is dangerous and I hope that the mainstream Democrats
[00:21:36] can find a compelling candidate because I think the reason that the DSA is increasingly ascendant is not because of their ideas. I think their ideas appear to this appeal to this very nar narrow subset of downwardly mobile rich white people who you know increasingly maybe live in you know quasi gental poverty because they they're not doing productive things. They may be well-intentioned but they're not doing
[00:22:00] productive things and can find a compelling candidate because I think the reason they're ascendant is Zoram Mani. I think he is one of the most talented politicians I've ever seen in my lifetime. You know, he can give a great speech. He's good in an interview. He can tap into all of this. He's kind of a chameleon who can shift. But I think he is a singularly talented politician and he is the reason that the DSA is ascendant. not their
[00:22:31] ideas or not dissatisfaction with AI, but it's him and there's no one else in the Democratic party. I used to think AOC was by far the most talented Democratic politician. >> That was the warm-up. Yeah, >> she was talented. She's nothing like Zoron from a political >> Zuron is clearly talented. And if you combine his charisma and ability to communicate with generations like we're now like have two of these lost
[00:22:58] generations that feel like they're going to do worse than their parents. And if you look at housing and college debt, healthcare, they don't believe that they can participate in the system. They feel the system's rigged. And if somebody comes along who speaks to them and they have no conception of socialism and what happened, you know, in Germany or during the Red Scare, they have no idea what socialism or communism is. They have
[00:23:25] this incredible wrapper they've put around this, which is, you know, they're democratic socialists. It's like it's it's the coke light. It's it's a coke zero of socialism. It's actually just communism. They want to literally seize people's assets. They want to seize half of, you know, these compan stock. They want to seize their wealth. They they just want to take from the people who have made stuff as we talked about last
[00:23:46] week and we've done nothing to change their mind. We haven't made more houses. We haven't made college more affordable. Healthcare is a disaster. Inflation's a disaster and starting pointless wars. Obviously, the support of Israel is somewhere in here as part of say something. >> Yeah. Yeah. I was on Megan Kelly yesterday and I had this theory that I've been kind of working through and I'll just share it with you guys because I'd love
[00:24:13] your reaction. If you look at the scourge of socialism, if you take the rhetoric away and you actually look at the outcomes, there are three countries that I think have veered far towards socialism well before the United States. Canada, the UK, and Australia. And I think when you look at any sort of reasonable measure of their progress, it's been an unmitigated disaster. So all of the virtue signaling on social issues, all of the virtue
[00:24:45] signaling on immigration and open borders, all of the virtue signaling on climate change has left each of those three countries in some state of disrepair with enormous amounts of infighting, tremendous political instability. They are all sort of powder kings. And there's an interesting thing that happened in each of those three countries that I think has the potential to turn the tide. And it speaks to what
[00:25:12] Gavin said. Each of those three countries now have banned social media when you're 16 and under. And I think it's sort of like making sure the kid doesn't get addicted to the drug too early. And when you look at somebody like Zoran Mdani, I think Gavin is right. I'll go even further. He AOC, the lady that just won >> Shiovalier. >> Shalier. Let's just break it down. They're all good-looking. They're all charismatic. They have their pulse on
[00:25:44] the the gestalt of the moment. They know how to use social media, and they are essentially curating an army. Now, if you cut the legs off by saying young people should actually age into social media, I suspect the most important channel of information consumption being taken away from them actually starts to give them the opportunity and the rest of us quite honestly because we have to deal with kids who are just really stupid constantly asking
[00:26:13] for this stuff. Um, the chance to actually show you how a balanced diet actually allows you to be much healthier in your later life. And I think as relates to information consumption, I think you are going to see I suspect a far less radicalized youth aging into the voting roles in those three countries. And I suspect if you start to see political stability and predictability in Canada, the UK, and Australia, you can put your finger right
[00:26:41] on this ban as the reason why. And Florida's already done it in the United States, and I think we need to deeply consider it across the rest of the United States. Good night. >> Social media ban is now starting at 16 and uh Canada has it. It may come to the US. Go ahead, Travis. >> I'm a full counter to Chimoth on this one. The I I think we all agree social media is bad for the kids and for the adults. Like too much of that stuff is
[00:27:06] very bad. It's brain rot for real. And it's going to be worse than cigarettes. It's all the things. But the real point of banning under 16 is so that you can force adults to identify themselves and deanonymize themselves so you can set up a fullscale censorship regime which they're sort of contemplating in the UK. And what censorship is really about is not about harmful content. It's about content that the people in power don't
[00:27:36] want you to see that disagrees with them. if it agreed with them, it's not harmful. It's the stuff that doesn't agree with them. And so what they're doing is they're criminalizing disagreeing with them. >> And so there's a derivative of this agebased stuff, >> age gating >> that >> which is really about the adults, not the kids. >> That is the downside to it. Gavin, you wanted to add? No, I super agree that I think that a social media ban under 16
[00:28:06] would be great, but I think it comes at a really high cost outlined by Travis. And that's what's really going on is they want to restrict anonymous accounts on X who say things that particularly the powers that be in the EU do not like. And if there's a way to do that while preserving anonymity and free speech, I'm all for it. But I think if if it were not for free speech and and X like I think we'd be living in a very
[00:28:35] different world today that would be a lot worse. And just to riff on a few things that that all of you have said you know on communism it is communism and the great tragedy of human experiences we can't learn from the experiences of others. And it may not matter that communism has failed utterly and ended in death and misery wherever it has been tried in a variety of different cultures with a variety of different mechanisms and every
[00:29:04] generation may need to experiment with it. I think the the saving grace and the importance of preserving free speech is that the DSA's policies and I would say in particular super progressive democratic policies are measurably bad. They lead to bad outcomes. If you care about black lives, there's a study that is uncontested that when you elect a Republican DA, all cause mortality for young black men in that city drops by
[00:29:34] 7%. That's all it takes. >> Yeah. >> You care about the environment. Well, progressives, there's so many regulations that you can't build solar, which is really the only thing that matters. And like the world is going to run on sunlight. You care about education. Their approach to education of getting rid of these elite schools that allows low-income people to have a real chance, you know, getting rid of math in California. It is profoundly
[00:30:03] disadvantageous to people. It leads to terrible outcomes. And we all know what happens with crime. It turns out that there's a certain percentage of people who, you know, are well, I think it's like 60 over 60% of the violence or 75% of the violence comes from people who have like 10 or more convictions. >> Yeah. I think the specific stat is like.1% commit 70% of the crimes. And if you just dealt with the 0.1%, you'd
[00:30:32] effectively no crime. And so I just think the scary thing is and I do worry for the first time like as a student of history the United States has been like a very stable political economic entity geographically stable for a long time. And that's to its credit because we could have literally taken over the world after World War II. But man, if they get total control of some of these cities and drive out everyone who is productive, I don't know
[00:31:03] how you come back. And so that's that is a little worrisome to me in terms of the future of of the United States. >> Well, and by the way, I I I don't think it's just New York. I mean, that race for mayor in LA where was it? Ramen somehow beat Spencer Pratt thanks to ballot harvesting after voting day or I should say votes that were found and counted after election day. I mean, that will be a test of the DSA because they
[00:31:32] are highly organized and they have learned how to take advantage of all these rules, these ballot harvesting rules and all these types of things. the DSA, I think they've got something like half the city council seats now in LA and they're growing. So, especially in these low turnout elections, and look, this was a Democratic primary in New York, which is a strongly blue state. So, I think maybe 17% turned out some
[00:31:56] very low, but this is where the DSA really thrives and excels because they care passionately and they're highly organized and they know how to take advantage. This is why they want all these like rank choice voting and all these types of things. they know how to manipulate and take advantage of those kinds of systems. So, I think that you're going to see this in lots of other jurisdictions wherever they're organized. I think LA will be a really
[00:32:20] interesting test. So, I don't think we can just chalk this up to Zoran's popularity. You know, this is a national movement and we're going to see in a lot of places, but there's no question that Mandani is now kind of the spiritual leader. I mean a lot of these people don't they think AOC is a sellout you know or Bernie is a sellout you know they are way more radical than even even those types >> to add to that sex they did learn
[00:32:43] something from Trump which is builds a big tent so you're seeing Bernie Mandami Roana they're all kind of like yeah we're different but there's enough room in this tent >> well what's happening is that these sort of more established progressive leaders they want to tap into this energy and even the establishment wing of the Democratic party is bending the knee. And so what you're going to see is regardless of how many DSA candidates
[00:33:09] actually get elected, the rest of the party is now responding to this and they're going to bend. They're going to blow in this direction because they don't want to get challenged in a primary. I mean, think about this. You had three major congressional races where the Mamani candidate won. Two of them unseated, you know, really strong incumbents. These were big upsets. So, you got to think now that every congressional race in a pretty blue
[00:33:33] district, those members are now going to have to take into account that they could get primar and they're going to have to tilt their voting and their views and their rhetoric in this DSA direction cuz they don't want to have happened to them what just happened to Dan Goldman in the New York 10th district. And just to make one last point on that. So Jal, you mentioned the the Israel issue and I actually think
[00:33:56] that is a hugely important and salient issue now in the Democratic party in Democratic primaries. Obviously you saw that as part of the DSA platform, one of the legs is free Palestine. This defeat of Dan Goldman, two-time congressman, he led the impeachment effort against Trump. He had all the right progressive credentials. He checked the box in all the left-wing policies. He was on the right cable news channels all the time.