[00:15:10] asked at a congressional hearing if they believe that nicotine is addictive. And one after the other, Chimath, they say they do not think it's addictive here. And that happened like 10 or 20 years after they had the research and hit it. This is the movie The Insider. You're 100% correct. You now have legions of people inside of OpenAI and Anthropic Freeberg agreeing that we're all going to die in 2030. They're not just saying
[00:15:38] everything's going to be hacked anymore. They're saying 10% chance of everybody dying and then other people are saying yes, that's probably pretty accurate. Freeberg, I give you the floor. >> I'll give you some other times when we've heard similar things. Al Gore published a movie called Inconvenient Truth and he used these IPCC forecasts that as of now have been disproven and many of the assumptions in those
[00:16:02] forecasts were not correct. A guy named Fouchy, you guys may remember him, he told us all that CO will kill us all and as a result we need to lock down the entire world. So everyone was locked in their houses. Businesses were shut down. The government began spending wildly to keep people economically active which had the adverse effect of driving inflation through the roof and we now have a spiraling debt and spending
[00:16:26] problem in this country. There was an era when 3M Island had an accident and we hysterically said we're going to destroy the entire country if we keep doing nuclear development. Meanwhile, other countries raced ahead. The cost to produce a gigawatt of nuclear power in the US today is like 15 billion dollars. The cost in France is four and the cost in China is one. I think we're in this hysteria phase of AI dumerism. I I think
[00:16:52] once you're in this phase, it's very hard to get out because it basically becomes the default uh social system. Everyone says we are facing an existential threat. We are all going to die if we don't do something about it. If we don't stop it. And the absence of proof that we're not going to die and that we have absolute security lets the doomsayers get away with the compounding effect of getting all of the social
[00:17:18] systems and social networks activated, which is where we're at right now. The majority of Americans, this is why data centers pull at 80. And people believe very deeply that we're going to die. And I think that there's like a deep unconscious rooting to all this. Humans are primates living in a cave. And we're deeply scared of what we don't know, what we don't see, and where we haven't been. And where we're going is a place
[00:17:38] we've never been. And it's scary. And in this era when people thought that the world was flat and you would fall off the edge of the world, it was scary to sail west because you would go off the edge of the world and you would never make it back. And then Columbus did it and hit some land and lo and behold, the new world was discovered. And I think that we've had many moments like this in human history where we're
[00:18:00] kind of like a pioneering species. But pioneering is not everyone's pioneering. The majority, the vast majority of people convince each other and convince everyone that we have something deeply threatening us and we're always facing existential threat. It is rooted in our beings as a species. It is deeply deeply rooted. It's what's created survival instincts for us over generations and millennia. But it takes just, you know, a little
[00:18:27] bit of pushing and someone gets to the pioneer and the new world is discovered. But it's because you haven't been there. It's easy to say there's dragons, you'll fall off the end of the world, we're all going to die, climate change will destroy us all. And on and on and on. CO will wipe us all out. And I think we're kind of in that social panic phase right now. And we're told we have to listen to the experts once again. And in this
[00:18:48] case, the experts is a six-w week employed individual who has not had a real job for very long and worked at an NGO whose literal job was to scare the out of people to stop doing AI development. And this individual went in and did six weeks of work, came out, and suddenly the whole world says this is an expert. Bernie Sanders says this guy's the expert. That once again we all have to listen to. Now I think it's important
[00:19:12] to note one thing. We we could sit here and argue that we should follow the precautionary principle. This idea that if something is existential to us, we should take precaution and we should take our time and we should slow it down. But the difference here is that in order for recursive self-improvement, which is AI that continuously improves itself and its capacity, reaches um that moment where that happens, you really
[00:19:38] just need an adequate amount of power, a set of chips, and a connection to the internet. You don't need to be approved by the US government or anyone else because you could do that anywhere on planet Earth. And as we'll hear about at the summit next week, there are technologies now that are reducing the cost of power per token of output by 10,000x. And there's enough compute out there that's publicly available that's
[00:20:02] floating around. Someone is going to stand up a data center or a set of computers, doesn't even need to be in a data center, and they are going to develop a system that's going to recursively self-improve. And it is going to happen. So if the US wants to kind of stop all quote development and make it illegal for people to use computers to effectively write speech, which is what software is, is writing the speech, we can go ahead and do that.
[00:20:25] And then someone else will have this capacity and we will be the tribe in the Amazon that has never seen civilization cuz civilization will evolve all around us. And somewhere in the world that has this technology, it will evolve. It will have a capacity to advance and the US will be left behind. So you can have the dumerism precautionary principle, but the reality is in the world today, we don't have the ability to control. And
[00:20:50] at the end of the day, I do believe that the fundamental motivation is a system of control. Because think about this, this guy's going on all these non- tech podcasts telling people they're going to die. And he's saying one thing at the end of the day, and so is Bernie, and so are others. Give power to X to control the development of AI. give power to someone to control the development of AI. Someone has to be given that power.
[00:21:19] Someone is being given that control. And all of them will have a different answer on who it is. Some regulatory body, the senators, some new agency, but they are centralizing control and power to some individual or set of individuals. >> Can we build on that point? Let's imagine we went through that whole COVID period with AI. You know AI happened a little bit after the whole co thing but let's assume that AI had happened before
[00:21:43] and furthermore we had a federal department of AI. Imagine that whole trust and safety regime that happened during co where social media was basically censored in cooperation with the federal government. The white house told you know it was then Twitter and Facebook that these accounts are dangerous. Disinformation is dangerous and people who had alternative or dissident viewpoints on the origin of COVID or the efficacy of the vaccines,
[00:22:12] they were suppressed. Imagine if that had happened during AI, right? You'd be asking your personal AI model, hey, should I get the vaccine? What are the risks versus benefits? Do you think it would tell you the truth? No. It would basically give you the official perspective and the government will have pressured through the federal department of AI. The FDA would have set standards for these companies saying you can't
[00:22:34] allow disinformation through your models, right? That's one of the harms that we want to prevent. And so, you know, think about how much more totalitarian that whole episode would have been if, you know, again, instead of turning to social media or the web for our answers, we were getting them from our personal AI. And that personal AI was being influenced through the government to give us basically official answers. I mean, you can see
[00:23:00] how dystopian it's going to be. And that that is where an FDA will take us. And that is also the problem with open source because open- source doesn't have the individuals employed because remember open source is a communitydeveloped effort. So community members contribute code and develop something. It might be a single company but technically open source can be forked and developed and pursued down different paths. This is what happened
[00:23:24] with Android. There are lots of different forks of it and so on. But with open source, there is no infrastructure, corporate infrastructure to go and do the regulatory submissions and do the sort of review that's being proposed with AI. That is the biggest thing to take note of because open source is what drops the cost of AI by 50x and makes it available to everyone. So everyone can benefit from AI and no one gets rich. We all get rich with open
[00:23:51] source. I don't own any shares in Open AI or Anthropic. In full disclosure, I don't care if either one of them win. I use both those products. I think they're both fantastic. Good for those companies, good for those leaders. I also use open source. And I think open source is the game changer because it does give everyone the ability to get wealthy and progress and make more income and have more freedom to operate
[00:24:17] in the world uh with AI. I'm a big advocate for for open source, but I do worry that this system of control, doing quote regulation, doing review, slowing it down, that means someone gets to decide when it gets to speed up again. That means someone is controlling the the gas pedal, which means someone gets to say open source is not submitting to the regulatory process. Therefore, we will ban open source. And as soon as
[00:24:42] open source is banned, you have now created a monopoly that is in partnership with the federal government. And you now have a centralized system of global control that is realized from this sort of an approach. And I'm not saying that AI shouldn't be tested and that we shouldn't confirm that AI is safe and that we shouldn't build safety systems and that we shouldn't be responsive and thoughtful about where things are going. And there's a lot of
[00:25:06] ways to do that. A lot of ways to do that and we should do them all. But to create systems of control and centralize them and get rid of open source is where this gets to. And that is not a world any of us should want to live in. >> Well said. Well said. I you know I just want >> that is where it's headed. I mean no look this is a doomer scop and the ultimate target is open source. That's what it all comes down to because that
[00:25:28] is what an FDA will ultimately ban. They won't call it a ban. They'll just say look we have to apply the same standards to open and close models. What are those standards? Dario has already testified before the Senate. He says that models are dangerous if you can't centrally monitor and control them and roll them back. that is technologically not feasible with an open model because once the weights are published to the public
[00:25:49] domain, they're out there. They can't be rolled back. And so we're going to have to prevent those weights from being published or used or hosted. That'll be the way that they deal with this. And so look, that ultimately is the target. And you can see that there's an alliance forming, right? You have this doomer community who are kind of these like highly ideological, the sort of EA rationalist group. They favor
[00:26:10] centralized status solutions. Then you got politicians like Bernie Sanders who like the fear because again it grants them more power. So it's more power for the government. And then you know you got groups like Open AI frankly seems to be running an anthropic slipstream right now from a red capture standpoint. I don't think they're as doomer as anthropic but they can see the benefit if the federal government effectively
[00:26:34] creates a moat that you know there's there's huge economic benefits to essentially creating a duopoly situation. So, some of these players are going to reap e economic benefits. Some of them are going to reap power benefits. Some of them are just, you know, latent totalitarians and they like the idea of socially engineering society. So, they're on board with this. And that's kind of what's happening right here. And the whole idea is to
[00:26:58] panic the public to stampede us >> into this FDA. >> I think what we're seeing here um is either this is a conspiracy theory that is being debunked in real time. acts like we went through co we've had other conspiracy theories uh that have come true being influenced by the FBI turned out to be true Twitter files all that good stuff now you have a group of people in the public who are on the alert for a conspiracy theory so we have to ask
[00:27:26] ourselves is this actually a conspiracy theory that's being debunked in real time by people like us and the broader public who's starting to say like is this real or not are these guys performative or not or we actually have to asked the question, do these people believe what they're saying? And it's one of these three scenarios. I think they either believe what they're saying and they're right, right? So, they
[00:27:49] believe it, they've seen something that we can't see because they're in the frontier labs and this could end us. The second scenario is they believe what they're saying and they're wrong and they have some level of psychosis. That's my leading theory. I think these people believe what they're saying and they have psychosis. or to your point Sachs there are some and this is scenario three they're involved in some
[00:28:08] coordinated scops with the goal of banning open source getting regulated pulling up the ladder behind them and then you have to ask is Jacob part of this sachs or is he just like a useful idiot in all this so they're identifying who are the people who have the psychosis and let's make let them speak for the company but >> no look it doesn't it doesn't all have to be a conspiracy so in other words I think it's very clear based on who
[00:28:31] amplified this post and when they did it that there was an organized PR campaign here, right? This wasn't just a random resation. >> Yes. And the the stats Yeah. the facts towards that. Yes. >> We know he pre-briefed the Wall Street Journal. And I think we can also say that these major doomer groups by amplifying his tweet within 10 to 15 minutes of him posting it on an account that had no tweets and no followers,
[00:28:55] they were alerted to this and probably participated. If not in the creation of the tweet storm, certainly in the amplification of it. So we know all those things. But do I think that Bernie Sanders is in on it? No. I think probably what happens is someone in these groups is already working with his staff or they have a conduit. they have a relationship and they get it to him very quickly because it serves his agenda. So what I'm saying
[00:29:16] is there's a lot of like overlapping agendas here where there's some people have an economic interest and some people have a power interest and there's going to be a division of the spoils in their view of the world. AI is going to be very centralized. We're going to have a duopoly. the duopoly reaps the economic benefits and they give big political donations and they'll do the dirty work of suppressing speech because
[00:29:39] again on that side of the ledger you can circumvent the first amendment and then on the government side of the ledger you'll have those people who exercise control over our lives through the whole FDAI so you kind of get this like division of labor in our system between aligned groups >> okay but look I don't you know I don't think we have to get into the conspiracy I think we should just ask like what is these people's track record of being
[00:30:01] correct. I think it is worth asking that. >> Well, again, they >> these are the same people. Let's just go through it. Let's just go through their track record. Okay, these are the same people who said GBT2 was too dangerous to release. Okay, O for one. These are the same people who said thinking models were too dangerous to release. Remember, you know what did I see? He saw the you know the first reasoning model
[00:30:22] >> that was too dangerous to release for two. Okay. >> They said totally right. You're totally right. >> They [clears throat] said that we would see cyber attacks. >> They said that this would cause cyber attacks that would bring down the whole banking system. Has not happened yet. There are cyber risks to be sure, but the best way of dealing with those cyber risk is by using AI swarms [snorts] for cyber defense as well as cyber cyber.
[00:30:44] Yes, exactly. Look, the only way to solve AI cyber attacks is with AI powered cyber defense. We all know that. Then you look at the job loss >> claims where Dario himself said that by now we'd be at I don't know >> half of all gone entry level work next year. Yeah. >> Yeah. And uh overall unemployment levels of 10 to 15%. >> Yeah. Half >> there's no evidence to that quite the contrary. It's all been job gains.