[00:00:00] The scop cance canceled on us. Is that what happened? >> Yeah, the scop cance canceled. He couldn't take the smoke. >> He did not want to be cross-examined by David Saxs. [laughter] >> I haven't used my legal degree in 25 years. >> I was up all night doing research on this. [laughter] >> We can still talk about it. >> I'm so ready. Yeah. [music] >> Let your winners ride. >> Rainman David. And I said, [music] >> "We open sourced it to the fans and
[00:00:29] they've just gone crazy with it." >> Sax, we have to talk about anthropic. A researcher just quit over AI fears that he thinks could kill us all. Jacob Coxin worked as a researcher at OpenAI, then Anthropic, over the past three years. Now, he only started at Anthropic 6 weeks before resigning. After quitting, he posted the following to X. Quote, "The people building AI earnestly believe that it could kill us all by the
[00:01:04] end of the decade. This is not a marketing stunt. Quote, neither open AI or anthropic uh obstensively is acting responsibly. They're not acting responsibly. Saxs, quote, they are racing straight to self-improving super intelligence and gambling. Gambling with our lives." This went insanely viral. I haven't seen a tweet go to 150 million views since Elon said he was going to put the cocaine back in Coca-Cola, which
[00:01:32] I think was the number one tweet of all time. >> But Jason, can you actually explain to me how does somebody who doesn't have any followers or an account show up on a Monday and get 110 million views on a Tuesday? How does that algorithmically happen? >> That's a great question. We're going to get into it. Evan Hubinger, who leads Alignment Science at Anthropic, responded to Jacob. Quote, "Jacob is correct here. We really
[00:01:57] do earnestly believe AI could kill all humans." Exclamation point. I personally think it is over 10% within the next decade. We do not yet have a plan to solve alignment. These two post 200 million combined. And it immediately jumped, as I mentioned last week, these things are now jumping from X and the AI community to the nightly news in under 24 hours. Bernie Sanders, never the one to waste a crisis, said posts like this
[00:02:29] are the reason he's pro proposing legislation to ban B, ban super intelligence, and pause AI development. Governor JB Pritsker replied to this post saying, "It's time to sound the alarm louder on reigning in AI." Sax Pooh, as our former Zar of AI, do you share everyone's concern here that we're all going to die by 2030? >> No, I don't. And look, there's nothing new here. This is the same doomer histrionics that we've been hearing from
[00:03:01] this crowd for a long time. And you know, the media is calling him a whistleblower, but what evidence has he brought forward that we didn't have? This is all just vibes from him. Show us the data. Show us the report. Show us the leaked information that the public didn't already have. Show us the facts. Show us the evidence. We don't have any of that. In fact, as Chimath was alluding to, this appears to be an op.
[00:03:26] How do we know that? Well, first of all, this is an account that had almost no activity, almost no followers, and no posts prior to this resignation tweet storm. If he did have prior posts, they were scrubbed. So, this was a completely blank account and somehow within a day it finds this huge audience. Elon has said it never happened before. And we also know who amplified it in the first 15 minutes. So there were basically
[00:03:57] three of these well organized, wellunded doomer groups who amplified it. So Nathan Calvin, who's a general counsel at Encode AI, they're the group that basically pushed for SP53 in California. They're pushing for all these state level AI laws. Peter Wilddeford, who's head of policy at the AI policy network, which is pushing for, you know, all these federal regulations, having a federal department of AI. And then
[00:04:23] Daniel Koko Taio, who's head of the AI Futures Project, who just happened to drop a Rogan episode at the same time in which he used the exact same phrasiology about how AI is going to kill us all. And all three of these groups are funded by Yan Talon, who is one of the top few of these EA mega donor doomer types, who also happens to be a co-lead of the anthropic series A. So, this is a tight-knit community that jumped on this
[00:04:55] tweet. So, this was not some spontaneous act by an employee who said, "Oh, I'm just going to post my resignation letter on Twitter." This was something that was orchestrated. And then just the the final piece of evidence on this point is that someone looked at the Wall Street Journal story that covered the resignation letter and somehow it was posted minutes before the tweet storm itself. So the Wall Street Journal was
[00:05:19] >> was under embargo. That's what it means. The technical term is they were briefed under embargo and they screwed up the published times. >> Right. And this guy Jacob Coxin, he reached out to you Jake said, "Hey, I want to come on the pod." Yes. >> Did he not? and then he canceled this morning because maybe he figured out it would be a tough interview if he had come on the pod. The questions I'd want to ask are who connected you with the
[00:05:39] Wall Street Journal. You know, this was a relatively low to mid-level employee who had been there for I've heard different estimates 6 weeks to 3 months. Let's say 3 months. This is not something that' be covered by the Wall Street Journal in this way. This is something that was teed up. He's clearly working with these doomer groups. They're going for maximum amplification. And again, he's been called a whistleblower, but what have you blown
[00:06:02] the whistle on? You know, where's the evidence? Where's the data? We'd love to see what you saw inside of Anthropic if somehow there's a problem there, but you won't tell us what that is. And in most whistleblower cases, you get the company pushing back. They say, "Well, no, it's not true." Or, you know, they want to refute what he's saying. In this case, they're amplifying it themselves. >> A functional company Sachs would
[00:06:26] disavow. Wouldn't a functional company disavow this sachs immediately? >> Here's the contradiction is complicated. >> He's actually amplifying their message. And you saw that when his boss or the person who's running this safety team is he's saying that, yeah, we all agree with you. And he then put on this greater than 10% chance of extinction, which when you put a number on something that frankly is just vibes, now it takes
[00:06:51] the the message to a whole another level. Two questions for you Sachs and then I have a bunch of comments and statements. I mean this thing is crazy. Question number one is just let's steal man the other side. What is the game theory on the SCOP? How do you think it is supposed to go from here had it not been exposed? What do you think they thought would happen? >> Well, I think they know exactly what's going to happen. I mean they are going
[00:07:15] for maximum infocation. Look, given that this this guy was at the company for a maximum of 3 to 4 months, it's entirely possible to me that he joined knowing that he would put together this campaign and >> yeah, so what was his goal? And is he a rogue agent? >> Is he or he's in coordination? That's >> these groups are interested in shaping the public perception of AI. This is what they do. I mean, these are groups.
[00:07:42] >> Well, they're creating a a very negative perception of AI to further their case for AI regulation. And the end goal here is to create a federal department of AI. They want an AI regulator. Some of them also want a pause. Some of them also want a ban on super intelligence. That's what Bernie Sanders bill puts forward. But all of them want a new federal regulator for AI. And that is what Daario himself has called for again
[00:08:09] FDAI which invariably they will control and they will basically then be able to push their preferred frameworks for regulation through this new regulatory body. >> Okay. I have another question. So now you have this very complicated moment where you have internal employees validating an employee that just left making claims. Let's call them whistleblower claims that create at a minimum product liability issues, but at
[00:08:34] a maximum may create false representation issues. You have an active S1 process underway. And so, how are they to handle that? Like, I'll give you a couple of historical examples. You guys remember when Google was going public? I mean, Freeberg, you probably lived it, but there was an interview that I think Sergey or Larry or both of them did with Playboy, but that was well before the IPO window. And then they
[00:08:59] published it in the middle of their quiet period and there was all kinds of noise about how that could have derailed their IPO that they would have had to refile. In a separate example, when Slack was going public, I was on the board and I was on TV with CNBC and we were talking about Tesla and SpaceX and I made a couple of comments about Slack, positive, but not saying anything that was crazy, just about the
[00:09:28] network effects of Slack. >> It wasn't super ausive. I remember it. Yeah. But that almost stopped our IPO and we had to go and print it out and we had to put it back into the S1 and we had to disclaim these things. This seems so beyond that because this is so beyond the pale of what these folks are claiming. What does it do to their IPO process? Now Sax, you jokingly said stop the IPO, but what is the SEC supposed to do? What
[00:09:52] are the explain? Are you joking or are you serious in that tweet? Well, I was I was tongue andcheek in that tweet and that's why I put the scare quotes around whistleblower >> is because this is not an ordinary whistleblower here. Appears to be doing this with the full cooperation and support of many of the employees including his own boss. I don't know if he's doing it with the senior leadership of the company, but again this message
[00:10:18] is fully consistent with the doomer/regulatory capture agenda of Anthropic. So again, he's not saying anything that is incompatible or detrimental to his boss and that's why he's getting support from within the company. But it does raise these these questions that Chimath is talking about. And I I do think that there's a tension here in Anthropic's position that I do think implicates their IPO process. And the tension is this. On the
[00:10:49] one hand, you're asking public market investors to underwrite your company to a value in the trillions. On the other hand, your own safety lead, not Jacob Cox and the boss who then sort of co-signed his his tweet is saying that your core product is unsolved and potentially civilization ending. I mean, at a minimum, that is a mother of all product liability lawsuits. Is that the type of liability you can just wave away
[00:11:17] with a little disclosure in the S1 >> sex? It's it's a very important point to to for us to pause on. If they are saying this thing is incredibly dangerous and they continue to update it and release it, they're saying if something goes wrong in your enterprise, in your life, if it does a major hack, if somehow it figures out how to hack Bitcoin or something and compromises the miners, they're liable for some giant
[00:11:41] hack that occurs. That's an incredibly important point for us to like meditate on here. >> Look, I think this is a time for choosing for anthropic. I think that these games have to end. I think that they have to choose between either renouncing this quote whistleblower as a doomer op. He's basically an entry-level no nothing who's engaging in hyperbole and science fiction. It's all vibes. In other words, there's not facts and
[00:12:03] evidence behind this, right? So they can say that or they can agree with him, you know, in which case Bernie Sanders may be right that further development should be frozen. In which case, I don't see how they can IPO now in the trillions because I mean that is where these doomer arguments lead is directly to Bernie Sanders. That's the reason Bernie Sanders quote tweeted this guy. That's why Bernie Sanders introduced a bill to
[00:12:28] stop further development to ban artificial super intelligence. But if that is where Anthropic says it's going and they agree with Bernie Sanders is dangerous, how can they be allowed to IPO at this point in time, why would any public market investor want to invest in that? So, it's fundamentally a contradiction and it's intention. And I think that historically the way that Anthropic has solved this tension is
[00:12:50] they've basically said, "Yeah, in anybody else's hands, Frontier AI is too dangerous to be developed, but in our virtuous and wise hands, it's safe. We will make it safe. We're the only ones you can trust. And everybody else in the world can see that that is the most ludicrous self-serving argument. We're not buying into it. We're not going to grant you a monopoly on Frontier AI or a duopoly through this red capture. So,
[00:13:16] you got to give up on that game. It's patently ridiculous. I think again, that's sort of their way out. But if that's not if if that's not going to be sustainable, I think they now have to choose between, [clears throat] look, you're either on the Bernie Sanders side of this thing, in which case, why are you IPOing? It's time to stop. Or >> you renounce the argument that Jacob Coxin is making that it is hyperbolic.
[00:13:38] There's no basis for it. >> What you saw yesterday showed that they're not in a position to do that even if they want to. I think that there are very rational, good people that work at Anthropic building a great company. The problem is is that that is in conflict with a philosophy held by enough of a group of people inside that business that they can't disavow him. Sachs, because then this entire cohort of people will go absolutely bonkers and
[00:14:02] get up in arms. >> This is such a good point, Chimath. Yeah. >> There's all kinds of people right now quote tweeting this guy essentially saying from the inside of both closed frontier companies that this is happening. >> Yes. And so I think it is a complete hornets's nest that they have kind of like kicked to the ground because on the one hand you have rational people who want to build a business for which you
[00:14:23] need enormous amounts of capital that is only available in the public markets. But the process of doing that requires you to underwrite risk, absorb liability, disclose that properly and then allow people to know what they're buying. But what we have is this weird version now where it's almost like a an example of like Philip Morris where it's like we know that the cigarettes are bad for you. We know that the cigarettes
[00:14:47] will kill you and we're going to say it but we're not going to disclose it yet we're going to take the company public and allow you to own the stock and then we're going to just figure it all out later. This is not a tenable position for they do as Sax said have to choose. >> Let me get Freeberg involved in here. This is a very good analogy you bring up. Nick, find the uh video where the executives at the tobacco companies are
[00:15:10] asked at a congressional hearing if they believe that nicotine is addictive. And one after the other, Chimath, they say they do not think it's addictive here. And that happened like 10 or 20 years after they had the research and hit it. This is the movie The Insider. You're 100% correct. You now have legions of people inside of OpenAI and Anthropic Freeberg agreeing that we're all going to die in 2030. They're not just saying
[00:15:38] everything's going to be hacked anymore. They're saying 10% chance of everybody dying and then other people are saying yes, that's probably pretty accurate. Freeberg, I give you the floor. >> I'll give you some other times when we've heard similar things. Al Gore published a movie called Inconvenient Truth and he used these IPCC forecasts that as of now have been disproven and many of the assumptions in those
[00:16:02] forecasts were not correct. A guy named Fouchy, you guys may remember him, he told us all that CO will kill us all and as a result we need to lock down the entire world. So everyone was locked in their houses. Businesses were shut down. The government began spending wildly to keep people economically active which had the adverse effect of driving inflation through the roof and we now have a spiraling debt and spending
[00:16:26] problem in this country. There was an era when 3M Island had an accident and we hysterically said we're going to destroy the entire country if we keep doing nuclear development. Meanwhile, other countries raced ahead. The cost to produce a gigawatt of nuclear power in the US today is like 15 billion dollars. The cost in France is four and the cost in China is one. I think we're in this hysteria phase of AI dumerism. I I think
[00:16:52] once you're in this phase, it's very hard to get out because it basically becomes the default uh social system. Everyone says we are facing an existential threat. We are all going to die if we don't do something about it. If we don't stop it. And the absence of proof that we're not going to die and that we have absolute security lets the doomsayers get away with the compounding effect of getting all of the social
[00:17:18] systems and social networks activated, which is where we're at right now. The majority of Americans, this is why data centers pull at 80. And people believe very deeply that we're going to die. And I think that there's like a deep unconscious rooting to all this. Humans are primates living in a cave. And we're deeply scared of what we don't know, what we don't see, and where we haven't been. And where we're going is a place