[00:57:16] last company standing, which is to say they would take all of capitalism and coalesce it into one company with their super intelligence and be able to beat every company on the planet. Freeberg at some point Daario believed he should comment on this. So where's the department? >> Anthropic did release a statement but it's basically >> andropic did but Daario did himself. The the CEO did >> the statement they put out is kind of
[00:57:42] this mealymouth like vague post about how they're a responsible actor or whatever. And again, it's basically more of the same from them, which is they have this fundamental tension. They're a frontier AI company that believes that frontier AI is inherently dangerous. Okay? So, you know, where that obviously leads to is Bernie Sanders, which has shut it all down or at least stop it, right? But they don't want to do that
[00:58:05] for their own motivations, right? So, what they claim is we're uniquely situated to protect humanity. It's the savior complex. But the rest of us aren't buying that and we're not going to give them a monopoly because we think they're so virtuous. So their way of resolving the tension is not acceptable to the rest of us and that's the problem they have. >> Here's their chief brand and communications officer Shasha responding
[00:58:28] to the clip from Allin. Daario has never said this complete utter nonsense and that was on August 14th after the show. And she's obviously Daario and her have not said anything right now. So maybe they weren't in the quiet period on October 15th and they are now. All right. Listen, in other news in AI, great discussion everybody. Open AAI says it solved a 200year-old math problem, but claims now are that uh somebody may have frontr run an actual
[00:58:57] scientist's work that was being done on open AI. So the Navier strokes equation written in the 1800s describes how fluids move. Every aircraft pipe and weather model on Earth is built on them. And they apparently give us the history of this here Friedberg. A lot of people have been working. >> Look, I'm not the guy. These are methods for modeling fluid dynamics, partial differential equations. These are mathematical approximations of
[00:59:22] continuous things in physical world. And OpenAI's solution that they published, they said that they used a reported 130 billion output tokens to do the work between 10,000 agents that were spun up to work with one another. And I just did the math on this. Like the human equivalent hours is kind of the real estimate of what this work was that was done by these agents. Because it's not like the AI, and I think this is so important for
[00:59:50] people to understand. It's not like the AI had some stroke of genius, some magical insight that no human brain could comprehend. What happened was the AI just did a bunch of brute force work to come up with this answer. And the work was done across many many computers. 10,000 agents just means 10,000 applications running on a computer talking back and forth to one another sharing information, sharing analysis. And the equivalent, if you
[01:00:22] were to think about human work years, is somewhere between 50 and 500,000 years of human work with humans typing at 40 words a minute, you know, having mathematical problems, solving them with calculators, doing this sort of stuff back and forth. And you could probably reduce that down by call it an order of magnitude, but it's still in the order of tens of thousands of years of human knowledge labor. And I think that that's
[01:00:44] really what this indicates about AI. AI is a tool of leverage for humans. AI is not some magical genius super god that sits above us that understands things we don't understand. Every piece of the open AI message set that went back and forth between these agents is documented, can be read by people, can be understood by people, and we can see the work that the agents did over the equivalent of tens of thousands of human
[01:01:14] years of time to get to the solution that it got to. And so for me, the solution that was described here is more of an insight into what AI is rather than what AI isn't. AI isn't some mathematical god. AI is an engine that gives humans extraordinary leverage. And when you think about the application of this particular set of problems and what else we might be able to do with things that are similar is instead of spending
[01:01:40] years trying to design a new aircraft wing, a new aircraft wing can now be brute force designed on a computer in a matter of seconds or minutes. Uh new engine design, a new energy system design. AI is a tool of leverage that takes tens of thousands of years of work and reduces it down to minutes or seconds. And so just like any other technology before it, I think it indicates that this gives humans leverage. It seems magical at first. It
[01:02:04] seems unbelievable at first, but when you dig into what actually took place, what's really going on is just really intelligent systems designed to solve problems using human known techniques. So I just want to kind of make my summary point on this whole thing. You guys are welcome to talk about partial differential equations and why they're so hard, but that that for me was my biggest takeaway on this whole thing.
[01:02:26] >> Yeah. The bigger issue here, Chimoth, >> your takeaway is that this was a very clever systems approach to brute force problem solving. >> Yeah. >> The the other issue I agree with that here, Chimoff, is >> also Jason, the autocomplete still doesn't work. Yes, [laughter] we solved one of the seven hardest math problems in the world. And you still can't get your intimacy kit from the front desk. >> And depending on the model, it still
[01:02:50] can't spell strawberry right >> or [laughter] count to 100. >> How many Rs in strawberry? >> Chap the other issue here which we've talked about here in terms of AI sovereignty using open source in the enterprise not trusting the frontier models with your data. When OpenAI came out with their solution, there was a claim that the original scientists working on this may have trained the LLM from OpenAI to make it
[01:03:18] easier for them to solve. And OpenAI posted the following statement. While unlikely, we cannot rule out that deidentified data derived from their usage, their being the mathematicians of our products helped improve our models. So maybe you could speak on AI sovereignty here. Should any scientist or law firm or you know person working in biotech making new potato seeds, should they trust any of these LLMs with
[01:03:49] their proprietary knowledge for fear of having it cribbed into the core LLM? If you have incredibly sensitive proprietary data, you have to make a very difficult decision because the reality is is that something is leaking that there's remnant memory of how these solutions were solved that sits within these models even after the fact. There's a concept inside of these models called zero data retention ZDR. It's a best
[01:04:25] efforts basis. It's a commercially best efforts basis at that. They can't guarantee it. You know, simple example, you could say do not retain the decision-making process of this protein design. Okay? And it can kind of do that, but then if anybody that's using it clicks the like button inside of the chat window, that's not necessarily guaranteed. So there's all these vectors where this data leaks into the broad
[01:04:51] corpus and understanding that these models have. So if you believe that the information that you have is critically important, you cannot use these services the way that they're currently offered by most people. What you need to do is you need to stand up your own sovereign solution. What does that mean? That means you need to go to a vendor that you trust. Could be AWS in terms of the Neocalers, could be Nebus.
[01:05:19] And what they will do is they'll stand up your own hardware and then you'll stand up your own models and then they'll provision those models to you and that's how you should probably be consuming it. >> And if you don't do that, you are creating risk. And look, let's be clear. Will a handful of CIOS get very publicly flogged and fired in the next year because they accidentally didn't understand this and just did an API deal
[01:05:45] because they wanted to feel popular and leaked data into these models guaranteed. >> Why will people get fired? Chimoth what what's going to happen? >> The thing that's happening right now is that a lot of this AI understanding and awareness is bubbled up through the audit committees and the risk committees of public boards. Who are those? Those are a handful of directors who are responsible for understanding the IT
[01:06:08] posture, the security posture of their business and then they disclose that back up to the board and then that understanding and awareness is what gets signed off and then submitted back to the SEC in these filings. [snorts] They also have these consultants that help them folks like Ernston Young, Deote and others. Increasingly what we are all learning is that ZDR is not an effective solution and there's a ton of leakage.
[01:06:32] And so what's happening now Jason is that that information and that awareness is bubbling up through the risk and audit committees of these boards. It's now going to the broader boards and now CEOs understand that hold on a second my information could leak. So now they turn to their CIO and say okay whatever you thought was happening we now clearly know that it's not. What is your answer? And it's when that happens or when all
[01:06:58] of a sudden they'll have to disclose some critical IP was leaked into a model or that they don't know whether it was or was not and all of a sudden something similar appears on the other side that's when shareholders will be really upset because they'll say guys when open AI even tells you that they can't guarantee it and you have closed your eyes and assume that your information isn't leaking what are we to do and if that
[01:07:21] decays and erodess my share value that I purchased from you assuming you were going to have your hand on the switch. >> That's where folks get fired and >> yeah, you know, shareholder lawsuits and it's going to be a mess. >> What does it mean for frontier models in terms of this trust leakage etc. Another reason to I guess embrace open source in the enterprise and individuals who are doing important work >> by the way. So it doesn't have to be
[01:07:44] open source. It just has to be your own entire well it doesn't even have to be on prem. It's effectively like your own VPC. You must go straight to the bare metal on your own terms. You need to control everything. You can work with folks like Amazon or Nebus or Fireworks. You can have open source solutions. You could even probably have Claude allow you to host a version of Cloud in your VPC. But if you don't go through these
[01:08:07] hoops >> because you took a standard rate card API deal, either because you were lazy or you didn't know any better and after today you're still doing this stuff, you'll probably get fired. I had mentioned this over the summer. A lot of these AI application companies are now moving off of the frontier models and I think that's a headwind. We'll soon be able to see some data on you know these very large customers they have who are
[01:08:35] spending 10 million 100 million per month on these services. This is why we 8090 this is why we partnered with EY and Deote because we're like hey let's find a way to help solve these problems in advance. And initially when when we would go and talk to a bunch of companies, they would be like, "Oh, we did the ZDR thing." And we're like, "Okay, well, we'll just keep educating you. In five or six months, you'll
[01:08:56] realize that ZDR means literally nothing and it's flimsy and it's Swiss cheese." And now all these companies are coming back to EY and Deote and us and they're like, "Oh my god, fix the problem." Yeah. >> And part of it is this realization that folks like OpenAI confirm in their own press releases. >> Yeah. Harvey announced September 9th that they had their own proprietary legal AI model. It's called tenant te ne
[01:09:18] and they based it on kimmy k3 and I mentioned earlier we incubated a company it's called go.ai AI and this company is on fire and what they do is just they build onrem a thing called the go one box I'm showing here on the screen just for people who want to get control of this uh this is one of our incubated companies from our launch accelerator I'll just give them a quick shout out there uh any thoughts on this and the
[01:09:46] data leakage issue sachs and what it means for the uh frontier models and how their biggest clients either trust or don't trust them with their data and their innovations. >> I tend to believe Gnome Brown, who's a senior researcher at OpenAI, and what he said about this is that nobody looked at Levent and Tristan's uh prompts. That'd be insane. So, he's denying it. I think it just doesn't make sense to me that
[01:10:14] they rummage through their their prompt chains. Could there be data leakage through the unidentifiable data perhaps? But look, I think the more plausible explanation here is that OpenAI heard that researchers were making progress on Navier Stokes and just threw a ton of compute at it to see if they could >> Sam actually confirmed that part as well that they heard that anthropic was getting close etc. So they were like,
[01:10:40] "Yeah, let's take a swing." Yeah. >> So I think that's probably what happened. I mean, but look, I don't know anything. I could be proven different, but I tend to believe that. But look, I think this raises a somewhat orthogonal issue that's worth talking about, which is data privacy. And I think we need much stronger data privacy laws around the data that you have with AI services. >> So right now, the data you have in your
[01:11:06] AI chats doesn't even reach the same level of protection as email. So in most contexts, if the government wants to get your emails, they would have to get a search warrant and they'd have to prove probable cause in a court. But that is not the standard for AI data. The standard for AI data is you can just get a subpoena or court order. And when you think about how personal AI is becoming, right? People are using AI as their
[01:11:31] lawyer, their doctor, their therapist, the list goes on and on. The idea that somebody could just get your data without probable cause, without a search warrant, that just seems kind of crazy to me. So, I think we at least need to strengthen AI data to the level of email and maybe even beyond that to reflect how personal is to people. And again, it's kind of nuts that if you talk to a lawyer, that's a privileged
[01:11:57] communication, but then if you ask that same question to your AI and then talk to your lawyer about it, it might not be protected. So we need I think for the data privacy rules to reflect how people actually use these tools and how they think about them. >> Any final notes on this free bar in terms of the data leakage issue. >> I'm deeply concerned about it. I have had experience where we've asked some fairly novel scientific questions and it
[01:12:21] identifies it as a novel insight. decide, oh, never thought about that. Be interesting like blah blah blah and then using a different account asking the same model later or the next version actually later. I've now experienced this. It's like, oh well, you could do this and it actually describes this exact thing that we had in our chat in the previous version. Now these are a handful of anecdotal experiences but I know the domain that
[01:12:46] we work in and the niche of it and the ide ideation of the stuff and the novelty of the stuff and the lack of papers being published and so on. So I know that there isn't some new corpus of information out there that's training the new model. So all I can say at that point is that my conversation or our analyses have been used for training. Go ahead. Siri, Siri, please prepare the shareholder lawsuit to a hollow.
[01:13:10] [laughter] >> Okay, this does raise a really good question, which what does it mean that the model is allowed to train on unidentifiable? >> Well, that's my point. So, it doesn't use any of my personal information, but it can use an insight derived from our chat, which it can then say is some training data. >> Trust >> that is unrelated. But the truth is it's actually it's actually a piece of IP that's for our organizational's IP and
[01:13:36] our engagement back and forth. We don't have any NDA or confidentiality provisions or protections with them being a service provider back to us. And I think that's what's lacking in the terms of service in all of these, you know, hosted. This is why I care a lot about open source because I don't want them having my chat logs because they can use it for training to create an IT advantage that is now diffused to the
[01:13:59] rest of the market. >> I find this very unfair and look, full disclosure, yes, I'm an Ohio shareholder, but >> me too. >> Take any company like you have these brilliant scientists at Ohio. They're pushing the boundaries of science. they are in a position to create true abundance. Okay, the first real manifestation of abundance would be food, right? And now Freeberg has to sweat whether his ability to actually build a viable business has been
[01:14:28] compromised. Not because they did anything wrong, but because they thought they were just trying to use a tool to advance his ability to get to the answer faster. And he thought he was doing it in a reasonable way. And now all of a sudden it could just leak out. And I just think that that's not fair. I'm going to get you a a Go AI machine. I I literally just ordered two Mac Studio M5s. I just ordered two of these. We're