[00:42:48] them up. Okay. And we can all see that the prosaic recursion is happening. RSI maximalism is is more about what you're saying where there's no human in the loop anymore that the the AI devises its own training run completely and pushes the button on doing it and then has the next run and the next run the next run and it just it's off to the races, right? That's the takeoff. There are so many ways of us preventing that and I
[00:43:15] don't know why any lab would want to do that. I don't know why Anthropic would want to do that. I don't know why OpenAI would want to do that. I don't even necessarily think that Chinese companies would want to do that. So, you know, as we get closer to that point where >> Did you unplug it? [laughter] >> Well, no. I mean, they did they do experiments like this. The whole >> thing did Southbin just comes and
[00:43:35] unplugs >> unplugs it. Yeah. >> No, but they literally we went through this with Dark Kesh's post last week which was OpenAI set up >> this recursive like here's a bunch of goals, get better at it, work with each other and they just watched it work like okay just watch it work and maybe if there was a liability that anthropic and OpenAI are responsible and the researchers who set these models into recursiveness sacks, those researchers
[00:44:03] themselves are responsible for what happens and the company's responsible for what happens. and along the way they're going to get speeding tickets or shut down. >> Agents working together as a swarm is so far removed from AI being able to do its own training run. I mean, these are just two totally different things. And look, it's certainly something we should keep an eye on. But again, he's going from this idea of we now have AI as a tool to
[00:44:26] make AI researchers more productive to we're going to get to RSI maximalism and then from there everyone's going to die. And there are so many intermediate steps where you have to show how we would get there. Like what Bill Gurley said is, okay, wait, let's slow down this argument and let's just talk about like all the intermediate steps between those things and why they would happen and then the interventions we could take if
[00:44:50] we ever got near that point to stop them from happening. And then the argument starts to fall apart. >> Yeah. It's just 50 way points along the way to Chimat's, >> you know, computerenerated boweapon being released into wet markets everywhere by robots. >> Again, my example is so pathetic >> because as Freebrook said, there's just so many steps between here and there that it's just so implausible. Again, >> and even if you got to there, you
[00:45:16] haven't even established how everyone would die. >> Yeah. And in a world where there's any other kind of model that's out there, the fact that it, as you said, Sax, couldn't actually create a vaccine at the same time >> and someone else is going to be doing it. And if you try and create one system of control for some of it, the recursive self-improvement scenario will play out somewhere on planet Earth. And when that
[00:45:38] happens, when that person or that organization or that country now has that capacity, they have now a huge technological advantage. And then it becomes very hard to catch up. And we've seen this time and time again with technological races. This is a moment that the United States would be deeply deeply mistaken to kind of write off. And let me just say one more thing about open source that I didn't say earlier. I want people
[00:46:03] at home to understand what open source really means. With open source, you don't need a data center. You don't need a third party billionaire getting richer. All of these kind of retorts about why AI needs to be stopped. It's for data centers. It's for rich people getting richer. If you get open source AI, you can install it on your computer at home or on your phone and you can run it on your phone for free and you now
[00:46:27] have an open-source AI agent model system that can do all sorts of things for you. It can book your travel. It can do work for you. It can make your life easier. It can do all these amazing things in terms of productivity. Open-source AI is critical for everyone to benefit from this technology and keep it from being centralized and controlled by a handful of companies and individuals and a small set of governing
[00:46:55] officials. Open source needs to thrive and if you give power and control systems over to governing people, open source will die and you will end up with more power and more of an oligopoly than you have ever imagined. Who's positioned here? What impact does this have? I'm being obviously a little bit playful here, but how does this impact the anthropic IPO, which was one of your original points here, Shimoth 88% chance
[00:47:20] they're going to go public right now according to Poly Market. So, let's pull up that chart for a second here. >> When you are in a quiet filing period, just to give you the the technical understanding, there is a an important back and forth that happens between you, the filing company, and the SEC. Now, what is the SEC trying to do? They are pressure testing how you've written what your best understanding is of your
[00:47:44] business. And the reason they do that is that when the S1 flips public, that is meant to be this anchoring document that is supposed to be an extremely accurate then current snapshot of all the opportunities but also all the risks. And so you now are in this very awkward position. You know, Sax's tweet is actually really important. It's what are we all to believe? And are we to believe that there is something that's extremely
[00:48:18] dangerous that's hiding inside this company because this person that quit said it and then it was amplified by a bunch of people that are currently then there. If it's true, now you have to go back and actually say, are these risks properly disclosed? And if so, what should the investors do in reaction to it? And I'll tell you what they'll do. They'll demand an enormous discount. And the reason they'll ask for an enormous
[00:48:43] discount is the other part of what Sax and Freebrook said, which is it creates massive longtail product liability risk because you're effectively evading a known major risk. Then there's the other path, which is you have to completely disavow this person. Now the reason that they can do that is if they actually believe that this is a little bit and it's a scop. So that allows the IPO to go more smoothly. But
[00:49:10] then the other part of it is then you'll have a plurality of employees inside of anthropic revolt because they unless they're lying they actually believe that this is a huge risk and if you disavow it they're going to feel enormous tension. So I think that anthropic leadership is caught in an extremely difficult situation. The SEC is caught in an even more difficult situation, which is how do I deal with these
[00:49:32] disclosures now? What does it No, no company's trying to go public and raise money, a very capitalist scenario, by also talking about how they're trying to destroy humanity. Nobody has ever done that. So there is no legal precedent for this. >> There is a risk factor section. Uh Sachs, >> but Sax said risk factors are extremely benign. These are superficial risks where you talk about if this happens and that could happen. If you know demand
[00:49:58] goes away that could happen. typical risks. Okay, just explain the typical risks, Jason, that they would have had would have said >> competition. >> Nvidia may not give us the chips. There may be other models that come around. >> This is not a risk that anybody actually writes in there as a 10% chance because a bunch of employees now, >> let me ask Sax, Sax, with all these employees coming out saying all this
[00:50:20] kind of stuff. They represent the company. They're resigning on behalf of the company. Do you think the S1 is being amended right now to include this chaotic these chaotic tweets? >> I think they have to. Yeah, I think I think so, too. Because here's the thing. The key tweet actually from a legal standpoint wasn't Jacob Coxin's tweet of resignation. It was Evan Hubinger's tweet >> endorsement. >> Endorsement. Co-signing.
[00:50:46] >> Yes, that's right. because this guy is still a senior executive or senior alignment executive at the company. He's managing one of these safety teams and he is co-signing and endorsing what Coxin is saying and then embellishing it by then putting this greater than 10% chance number on it which just makes the thing go super viral. >> Let me ask you a question for you. >> So now hold on. So it crosses over. If
[00:51:08] it was just Coxin you could just say oh this is just some disgruntled employee. If Anthropic was a normal company, what would a normal company do in that situation? They would say, "Look, this guy just joined a short time ago. He was barely here long enough to find the bathroom." Okay. He probably joined the company [laughter] knowing he was going to resign and make himself into this >> disavow him. >> Yeah. He had an intention to turn
[00:51:32] himself into an AI >> safety celebrity. He's certainly availing every opportunity to go on every talk show right now except ours uh to basically promote himself. So this guy's a self-promoter. He did not actually reveal anything damaging to our company. He's calling himself or the media is calling him a whistleblower, but frankly all he's got is vibes and it's hyperbolic and it's ridiculous and we're moving forward. Okay, that's what
[00:51:58] a normal company would say. But they won't say that because fundamentally they agree with him and their employees are saying they agree with him and he's amplifying their message and frankly whether they plan this or not they are happy that he's doing this. Why? Because they like the political outcome that he is steering the country towards right. They want an FDA. They actually like what Bernie Sanders is doing. They like
[00:52:23] the fact that 30 Democrat politicians quote tweeted to this guy. This is part of their regulatory strategy. So to go back to what Jamas said, there are now legitimate questions here of did they violate their quiet period? Maybe Daario didn't. Daario hasn't said anything. He's been very quiet. But we know this Hubinger guy, did he violate the quiet period? Is he a sufficiently important executive? And again, this is this all
[00:52:48] part of their strategy? >> Well, let me just talk from very basic principles here. Everybody who joins a company signs a non-disclosure. They sign a non-disparagement. They have a corporate communication policy, especially they have the legal department talk to every employee and explicitly tell them, "Do not talk because we're in the quiet period. We're leading up to an IPO. Everybody keep your mouth shut and do not talk about
[00:53:17] what's going on here. That is job number one." What is going on with the management of Anthropic that they're allowing people to cosign this, retweet it? they should do what Apple and Steve Jobs did or Tim Cook did. Nobody in the company speaks for Apple unless it's Tim Cook and unless it comes from the corporate communication department who's running. >> We don't know that they haven't said that. All we know is that there is a
[00:53:41] pylon that's happened. The brush fire was initiated by a disgruntled ex employee who was kind of like floating around and was there as SAC said barely long enough to find the bathroom. But the problem was then a bunch of insiders piled on and now they have this issue which is is it properly disclosed and then beyond that how will people view that disclosure? It there is no way that you can now have a disclosure like this
[00:54:10] and have it pass muster. Meaning you have people at the company saying there's a chance of existential risk and civilizational extinction. Downstream of that is that there is risk to individuals and individual lives. Downstream of that are going to be cases where something bad happens because the AI said to do A or B or it was trying to give love advice, the person gets rejected, the person, you know, hurts themselves, self harms, whatever.
[00:54:39] There's going to be all of these issues, okay? The long tale of issues are going to be if social media is a guide, this will be as bad or worse. Except in all of these cases, nobody at those companies actually thought they were doing something bad. >> We thought when we all worked there that this was legitimately good. There were these speurious things that brought that into question. Some of us talked about
[00:55:03] that at that point, but this was 10, 15 years into the journey, not when you were making it. Now, in the middle of making it, you're like, "Whoa, wait a minute. This is going to kill a bunch of people." And then so what do you expect people to do if something bad happens to them or their loved ones? They're going to go back to you. It doesn't matter what the disclosure says and they're going to say, "Excuse me, this." And
[00:55:24] what do you think a juryy's going to do in a jury trial? What do you think grand juries will do in the reaction? What do you think state AGs will do when they're trying to build their political bonafides? I think that this is an enormous problem for anthropic. >> Yeah. And let me let me actually peel peel the onion on this one more layer which is you not only have employees of Anthropic possibly violating the quiet
[00:55:45] period by stepping out and co-signing this. You also have the fact that this whole resignation tweet storm was amplified by these groups who were funded by Yan Talon and Dustin Moskovitz who co-led the series A of Anthropic along with Sam Bankman Freed. It was an EA funded round, which is a really interesting detail in anthropics history that Daaria went to the EA mega donors for funding at the very beginning and
[00:56:13] that's part of why they have this culture. But think about their financial interest. They're on the cusp of making many billions of dollars, >> hundreds of billions. >> I mean, the series A will turn out to be one of the great venture investments of all time. And the groups they funded encode AI, the AI policy network, the AI futures project. These groups are funded by series A investors in anthropics. So this is getting like really twisted I
[00:56:45] think. Let me just say this makes no sense to me because we were sitting here less than a month ago, three weeks ago. We had Gavin on the podcast and I don't know exactly when their quiet period started, but Daario thanked Gavin for a thoughtful exchange and he went and explained in detail all of their concerns and, you know, countered this claim that Gavin had that he heard from insiders that people inside Anthropic believe they were the
[00:57:16] last company standing, which is to say they would take all of capitalism and coalesce it into one company with their super intelligence and be able to beat every company on the planet. Freeberg at some point Daario believed he should comment on this. So where's the department? >> Anthropic did release a statement but it's basically >> andropic did but Daario did himself. The the CEO did >> the statement they put out is kind of
[00:57:42] this mealymouth like vague post about how they're a responsible actor or whatever. And again, it's basically more of the same from them, which is they have this fundamental tension. They're a frontier AI company that believes that frontier AI is inherently dangerous. Okay? So, you know, where that obviously leads to is Bernie Sanders, which has shut it all down or at least stop it, right? But they don't want to do that
[00:58:05] for their own motivations, right? So, what they claim is we're uniquely situated to protect humanity. It's the savior complex. But the rest of us aren't buying that and we're not going to give them a monopoly because we think they're so virtuous. So their way of resolving the tension is not acceptable to the rest of us and that's the problem they have. >> Here's their chief brand and communications officer Shasha responding
[00:58:28] to the clip from Allin. Daario has never said this complete utter nonsense and that was on August 14th after the show. And she's obviously Daario and her have not said anything right now. So maybe they weren't in the quiet period on October 15th and they are now. All right. Listen, in other news in AI, great discussion everybody. Open AAI says it solved a 200year-old math problem, but claims now are that uh somebody may have frontr run an actual
[00:58:57] scientist's work that was being done on open AI. So the Navier strokes equation written in the 1800s describes how fluids move. Every aircraft pipe and weather model on Earth is built on them. And they apparently give us the history of this here Friedberg. A lot of people have been working. >> Look, I'm not the guy. These are methods for modeling fluid dynamics, partial differential equations. These are mathematical approximations of
[00:59:22] continuous things in physical world. And OpenAI's solution that they published, they said that they used a reported 130 billion output tokens to do the work between 10,000 agents that were spun up to work with one another. And I just did the math on this. Like the human equivalent hours is kind of the real estimate of what this work was that was done by these agents. Because it's not like the AI, and I think this is so important for