[00:29:08] funding some of it for undocumented people who are showing up in uh in emergency situations, then yeah, you're you're you're funding that. Uh but the my view of it is that let's be honest that that's not where the big money and the budgets are. You're talking about a small group of folks. You can argue the cultural point about it. Uh but don't uh don't make that the the numbers. >> So So for the average person watching
[00:29:35] listening, what technically happens if there's a shutdown? Like what happens to their everyday lives? Well, first of all, it's a it's bad for some of the public servants, right? Will the capital police will police officers get paid? Will uh will military get paid? Will people if they have a family member who is in government service, will they get paid? And they just may as Americans or family members care about that or you're
[00:30:00] going to have people without pay. Second, there will be some services that'll start getting cut, right? Like if you're flying a plane, you may not notice it for a few days, but then after a few weeks, you're saying, "Oh, they have less government uh less flights because we don't have enough people showing up or staffing at the airports and uh some of the parks may shut down." Uh things that involve the government
[00:30:21] that aren't national security uh urgent are going to get affected. >> Let's um talk a little bit about the censorship issue. This has come up multiple times. It's a culture issue for sure, but why are both sides so obsessed with this? And how do we get this uh resolved between both sides? And then there's another both sides issue, which is political speech that's violent. Fight like hell, Trump is Hitler. The
[00:30:47] stuff that I don't hear you saying, but that we do. >> Steven Miller is a fascist. >> Steven Miller saying it the other day. Yeah. Tweeted it out. >> He's he's gone full Trump in terms of the dueling. I I wouldn't I wouldn't call it full Trump. I would just say it was really trolling issues each other. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, look, there's a way to to to to argue. I' I've gone back and forth with Steven Miller and and he we we have
[00:31:13] exchanges. I've gone back and forth with Vice President Vance. I mean, sometimes I think some of it is iner, but the point is it's within a bounds. You're not he he's not uh saying, you know, uh deport row. uh and I'm not uh uh using the words of uh Hitler or or other things in in in talking about him. I mean you can have spirited debate uh in a way that uh isn't polyianish uh is tough but respects certain norms that
[00:31:42] the other person uh is a person of intelligence uh whose views you disagree with. Is there no leadership though Ro like where when you're in DC people come together and say you know what the people who have the most to lose here are us. So it's in our best interest in terms of self-preservation for all of us to just speak in a more kind civil way to each other because there are a large number of mentally ill people out there.
[00:32:09] I believe that's like at the core of this is mentally ill people hear different things when you say fight like hell or this person's Hitler etc. and they may act on it. And >> I can I can I say something? I I think this is an important point, but I want to just push back on that. It's too simple to sweep it under the rug as a mental illness issue. Like when you have somebody get assassinated where the bullet says, "Hey, catch this fascist."
[00:32:32] And then less than 10 or 12 days later, you have one of the if not the most visible leaders of the Democratic party in all caps screaming on X, Steven Miller is a fascist. I think that that's just irresponsible. I think we can all admit that that is irresponsible and that I think what happens is as Rose said the extremes have been amplified in an attention economy but I think it's too simple to say that they have
[00:32:57] something that can just be swept under the rug. I think that this chronic issue and uh you can both sides it. you know, when when Trump said go fight like hell and they went and beat police officers, you know, at the capital, I don't know if you were there, Row, and what that was like, but I was >> you were there and like it's pretty scary and that thing could have gotten out of hand. And the Oathkeepers and
[00:33:18] Antifa, these are both radical organizations that will murder people, that will beat police. They're they're very disturbed individuals in both of these groups. So I think you can both sides of this and every time we see one of these crazy people, these extreme people, it's it's really the same profile. It's it's white men who are disconnected from reality. So I don't know how a sane person drives into a church, kills people, and lights it on
[00:33:42] fire like we saw the other. >> No, Jason, I understand. But I'm saying there there's a broad group of people that are committing these actions that are not just deranged. They're being incited. They're being programmed. They're being pulled into behaving in ways that if they had other things, other attachments, they may not necessarily have done this. >> I would agree with that. If there was religion and family and they weren't
[00:34:03] shut in and playing video games, I agree. >> Let me hear you, bro. >> No, no, it's good. I feel like I'm in like a uh the therapy session with old Mary >> poker table. This is the whole point of the podcast at the poker table. Here you are at the table. Go ahead. Tell us your >> Here's my view. Obviously, it's it's that that kind of extreme rhetoric is leading uh in cases of political violence, but it's more than that,
[00:34:28] right? It's not just the Charlie Kirk assassination or January 6th or the attack on Pelosy's home. It's also making us hate each other as Americans. It's making us incapable of coming together to say, you know what, I agree with Donald Trump selling pharmaceutical drugs at a cheap price because that's the direction that Bernie Sanders would go. we can't we're not able to do that. Why? Because we've created such uh anger and extremism and
[00:34:57] uh tribalism in in in our politics. And the reality is right now you're rewarded for it. If you grab the attention and you show that you've kind of got vengeance on the other side, your poll numbers go up in within your own uh base. Uh you're uh you get more contributions. I mean, we just need to speak plainly about some of the incentives. And if the election was in November of 2025, uh, the next presidential election, I
[00:35:28] think both sides would end up nominating the the side that's going to take it to to to the other one, the the own the libs from the Republicans and, you know, fight fire with fire with everything and own the MAGA folks from from the Democrats. I am hoping I don't know if that's true. I'm hoping that people will see that this is a a spiral downwards, that fire, that fighting fire with fire leaves ashes for everyone. That's what
[00:35:53] Emanuel Clever says. And that we've got to find a different way of of moving forward. By the way, even people who agree with Trump on policies, there have been a lot of presidents in our country's history, FDR, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, Obama, not all of them were divisive. There's one guy who did that. And my view is first of all, American politics disdains a copycat. You're probably not going to be successful just mimicking him. And
[00:36:21] secondly, why wouldn't you return? Why wouldn't you want this country to return to a aspirational inspirational politics whether your choice is right? I think people are going to get burned out on it. So the the other two issues I wanted to to hear from you on is the the censorship one and then the lawfare one. It was pretty clear that of the six or seven cases that were uh done against Trump during his time off and and the
[00:36:47] Biden administration was in, you know, were were reaching, right? And maybe were lawfare would be fair to say were lawfareesque. And now you're having the exact same thing Trump doing with Comey where he's firing the attorney general in that district, putting a new one in. So, I'm wondering how you think about the censorship wars going back and forth and then now the lawfare ones because we as moderates and I think moderates are
[00:37:14] the ones who are swinging these elections right now. >> You guys are >> we're getting very tired of it. I am exhausted with the fact that neither side will stand down on censorship or on the lawfare. What are your thoughts? >> Well, on censorship I have a particularly strong record. I when people say what makes you a different kind of Democrat, I say free speech. And all these people who got uh outraged when Jimmy Kimmel was was pulled down
[00:37:38] were silent uh often when Twitter was censoring uh the New York Post with Hunter Biden's laptop stories. And as you may remember my email leaked uh where I said that no, you shouldn't be pulling down that story and you shouldn't be uh having the New York Post uh take that down. And then I got criticized from my own side, even though I'm one of the strongest defenders of trans rights. And you we may have disagreements over where my
[00:38:05] stance is because I said that comedian who was arrested at Heathrow airport for a transphobic post should not be arrested that that you should not be arrested for that. I got criticized from from the left. So my point is then when I speak out and say, "Okay, Jimmy Kimmel shouldn't be pulled down and we shouldn't be cancelling speech or going after left-wing groups," there's at least some credibility because I'm
[00:38:28] willing uh to say, "Look, our side is engaged in that kind of censorship as well." And it's wrong when either side has it. And I think our side would have a lot more credibility in going after Trump, even if they didn't do it back then if we just acknowledged that we've got this speech problem on our side. It's easy to be for free speech when it's speech you like. Like Kim, it's hard to be for free free speech. The
[00:38:51] test is not will you stand up for it when you like it. It's will you stand up for it when you don't like it. And that's >> okay. Now do >> cuz this is you know I didn't like it when they did it to Trump. There did seem to be like some situations where he was provocative or did some things that you know on the margins could have gotten you a ticket let's say. But then you have, you know, these big judgments against him that I don't
[00:39:15] think would have been brought if he wasn't running for president again or they didn't want him to run for president again. And now we have the same thing happen with Comey and they're literally picking the attorney generals and firing them and putting people in who've never actually even been in front of a grand jury just to get this, you know, revenge. And so it's it's a pretty dark time, I think, on the law front.
[00:39:35] What do you think? >> Yeah, look, I I don't want to relitigate uh Trump's actions. I do think he did certain things like January 6 others that were blatantly uh illegal and and and unconstitutional. But I will say this that we whoever going forward for the parties should be make a firm commitment that uh they're going to follow the law and not engage in vengeance and not engage in retribution. Uh and it's sad to me that that that
[00:40:03] we've gotten to the state. I I understand Trump feels like, okay, he won a second term. He he was spared from assassination. He had everyone against him and and and he's going to get the people who he he feels he was wronged by. But it's a it's a horrible thing uh for the country and we've got to we've got to make make it clear that that we're going to move past this chapter. Not that okay now we're going to uh
[00:40:26] Democrats are going to come in and we're going to go after uh everyone on their side. I mean then we're no different than any other country. >> Jumping off tangentially from Lawfair, let's talk about crime for a second. You know, you described your self-described progressive Democrat. One of the themes around that is social justice reform and you're seeing some of the implications of that, the the abuse of no bail, the
[00:40:52] abuses by DAs who are letting teen repeat offenders out on the street. You're now seeing how that manifests in crime, right? everything from this this young woman from Ukraine who was brutally murdered to this young woman, the 22-year-old who who's killed as part of a home invasion. Her her father gave this gripping testimony a few days ago. Where are the Democrats on this idea of keeping the streets safe and law and order through the lens of
[00:41:23] the social justice reforms you believe in as a progressive? So, one of the things I say is that uh my district, and I don't say this to brag, I just say this to make a point, my district is actually one of the safest in America. Right? When you look at Fremont, uh Certino, Sunnyville, Santa Clara, and San Jose, they're all in the top 25 safe cities. And I say that's correlated with the fact that we have five trillion
[00:41:47] dollar companies, Apple, Google, Nvidia, Tesla, and Broadcom. You wouldn't have the economic prosperity of Silicon Valley if you didn't have the safety of Silicon Valley because you wouldn't have executives living there. You wouldn't have families living there. You wouldn't have people uh wanting to participate in the economy. So safety is essential if you believe in creating economic opportunity and economic mobility. And I
[00:42:12] think that there is a group of pragmatic mayors now. Dan Luri I would say in San Francisco, Matt Maym in San Jose, Raj Salwan in Fremont who recognized that the pendulum had swung too far that you know I supported that ballot initiative that was on the ballot last last election that said you know if you if you are committing multiple crimes of uh smashing into Walgreens, then you're going to be charged that you can't just
[00:42:40] say, "Okay, yeah, you can keep smashing into Walgreens committing taking under $1,000 and It's okay. Uh I don't view that as being not progressive. I mean progressives I thought the whole point is you believe in the rule of law. Now if you say yeah you shouldn't lock someone up for the rest of their life or a mandatory minimums fine. But that doesn't mean you excuse behavior that is >> how does a how does a 14 time feline,
[00:43:07] you know, never end up being held accountable and then is on the streets and then just savagely murder somebody in it's totally unacceptable. I mean >> it's totally unacceptable. >> Totally unacceptable. It happened with that Ukraine I I don't remember all the details, but I think it happened with that Ukrainian girl. It happened with this Indian-American who was beheaded in uh Texas where the the person had all
[00:43:28] these arrests. uh and and you know what the the interesting thing is I spoke out about about those and I didn't get that much push back from a liberal base. So I don't what I don't understand is where the the pressure is coming from from just saying look we got to be common sense in this country. Now, I don't think the answer to that is, you know, put federal troops like Trump is. But what the Democrats should realize or my
[00:43:52] view is like is that why is the country letting him do that which we which I don't think is constitutional or the right right solution because they're so frustrated with what's going on and just citing statistics, you know, going out there and saying, "Well, the statistics are down." >> Yeah. This doesn't match people's reality. They people are smart. And you know, I think this is really a stupid strategy by the Democrats. If Trump
[00:44:18] says, "I'm going to send in the National Guard because you guys haven't done the job." The the obvious kung fu move to redirect that energy and say, "Yes, here are the five places, these are hot spots where we need those troops. If you can put these troops on these five corners, on Turk Street, on Sixth Street, that's where we need them. And uh how long can we get them for uh before you move them to the next hot spots? That would
[00:44:40] totally just take away what is an obvious play by the Republican party to make the Democrats fall for the trap of we're pro crime, we don't care about people's safety, which by the way is the It's just so dumb. >> It's so dumb. Like why are Democrats in this respect from these specific cities, Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, San Francisco, why are they so dumb? >> Well, these are hard cities to govern. I mean, it's it's not
[00:45:10] >> dumb. They're not they're hard but and I I dis, you know, because I'm always honest, I disagree with you on on the National Guard coming there, but I do agree. >> I disagree I I agree with you, by the way, that it's not constitutional. But in a situation where people are suffering day in and day out, what happened in Washington DC when they put those people when they brought in the National Guard, we should have Jason. I
[00:45:31] think everybody said, "I love >> Jason. Jason Jason with I think this comes down to leadership. When you look at these big cities, there are examples of when they have been governed well and it takes a point of view and the balls to just say this is how it's going to be." The last best example of this is Mike Bloomberg in New York. Yes. >> I remember the first thing the first thing Mike did was he said, "Soda out."