[00:14:26] factories in in Ohio and this thing he calls economic patriotism. I'm more libertarian. I'm for deregulation. He doesn't understand how you really grow the economy. That's that's what we should be talking about. Uh instead, it's just, you know, everyone's trying to see how they can curse in terms of being authentic as if that makes you intelligent, right? I mean, it's it's actually just the expression of emotion
[00:14:46] without a thought. And I uh I I I'm hoping that we'll have a more serious politics. >> You had a you had a really great moment on a podcast I heard you on. I can't remember which one, but you were saying, "I wonder if comedy is the precursor now. Being funny, uh being witty on programs is like the precursor to to running for president." But let's let's talk about um I think maybe an interesting place to go would be how the
[00:15:12] technology industry how to win that back on the Democratic side. You had essentially the entire industry. You had monopoly. Let's call it what it is. Nine out of 10 95 out of 100 Democrats. >> We even had Shamat. >> You had Shamat. You had Mark Pinkis. I mean listen even inside the cabinet. Bessent Lutnik Trump himself. I didn't know >> they were all Democrats. Yeah. All previous Democrats, including Trump himself. So, is there a road back? And
[00:15:41] then if we were just to do a little, you know, post-mortem on how the tech industry was kind of abandoned, vilified. I know for me as a moderate basically up until this time have been like two out of three times I voted Democrat. Now it's like 6040ish. the banning of the billionaires, the demonization of entrepreneurs. It it must have been uncomfortable for you to watch. And obviously you see the entire um digerati at the White House having
[00:16:11] dinner. You must be thinking to yourself, my god, Biden could have done that at any time. He could have summoned everybody and said, "Hey, come let's talk about your issues." But instead, the industry was vilified. So if you I don't want to spend too much time on it, but what's what's your diagnosis of how that happened? And then how does the Democratic party win back technology and leaders and billionaires?
[00:16:30] >> I do joke that I think the tech industry has become the new uh new new aristocracy. I look at I look at the white house there they are sund Tim Cook and Satya and all the group and then then the king of England King Charles there they are or something. So it's a it's a it's a it's a a group that obviously has a lot of stature and respect. I guess here was my point to the Biden administration that uh they didn't agree with or they ignored. I
[00:16:57] said you're you're making a mistake if you think that getting Silicon Valley folks uh on your side is about the money because they would always say, "Oh, Biden's going to raise all this money. We don't need need the valley's money." I said, "Yeah, you're going to raise all the money." And they did. They raised tons of money. Klaris raised tons of money. I said, "That's not what it's about. It's about culture." I said you
[00:17:18] you there are a lot of young people in America who admire these entrepreneurs who listen to AllIn, who want to build wealth, who want to build the next generation of wealth. By the way, all crypto is why why are there so many young black and Latino uh folks who care about crypto? Because frankly, it's the closest often they're going to get to a friends and family round in technology that we've got to expand economic
[00:17:41] opportunity so they have more options. But there are a lot of people who want to have a part of the digital economy, who want to who look up to entrepreneurs and innovators. And you basically let Trump, this 1980s real estate guy who was kind of pay a who was wondering whether we were going to get more reruns of The Apprentice and another act on on politics, and you let him be the cool guy with hanging out with all these tech
[00:18:04] folks saying, "No, I'm the future." And I said, "That's the the the the worst mistake our party has made because we've got to be the party of the future. We've got to be the party of entrepreneurship and innovation." And you can be like me, a guy who says, "We should tax the >> I I'll just tell you I'll just tell you one quick story. I think I think it's not that. >> I think it's something I think it's something more basic. When when we were
[00:18:28] at that dinner, >> Yeah. >> he asked everybody, "What is the biggest issue that you're dealing with?" and he goes around the table and he asks what is a very basic and open-ended question. And I I can say this because I think it was pretty clear what happened afterwards, but one of the things that was mentioned was just the overwhelming pressure that the Europeans were putting on Google. I don't know if you remember
[00:18:50] this. And the day after, beyond making some calls, what he did was he put a pretty meaningful pressure campaign that allowed the release valve to get released. so that Google had less pressure from the European regulators and less ownorous terms. I think that that's what it is because when you sit with him, he's not selling an agenda. He mostly just asks you what's going on and then he says what can I do? And I think
[00:19:21] that that is a unique feature that many politicians I think have lost. And listening and and and you said an important thing which I just want to double click on because I would love your perspective on this. I do believe that President Trump views the lens through economic patriotism. I've been largely convinced that I think that that is a very powerful way of behaving in the world. You know, Alex Carpet or Allen Summit
[00:19:47] referred to it in the spirit of Chinese Tai Chi. It's internal stability. It's how do you make sure that you have the resources so that you have effectively infinite optionality abroad. That makes sense to me. So I'm just curious what is the opposite of the economic patriotism that Trump offers that you've seen expressed in other countries right the Chinese I think is very fair to say had their own view of economic patriotism
[00:20:17] and why is the opposite of that a better model >> well economic patriotism been my platform that's why Ben and says you know watch out for this kind of guy I've been talking about and writing about economic patriotism for years I would say try how let me talking about why it's different uh from from where Trump is. And and it gets to partly your point. I I I think fine he listens, but he's not listening uh enough to people
[00:20:43] are saying, "Well, the tariff policy is not going to get get us to economic development." He's not listening enough, in my view, to people who are saying that you can't just take a sledgehammer to universities and research that that's not going to help build the economy of this country. uh he's not listening enough uh to people who are saying don't don't just have all this vetting and uh for international students and and don't
[00:21:07] don't insult immigrants coming to the United States and we do need immigrants. Now I I agree that he gave some of those answers and and and allin but overall uh there hasn't been the same understanding and case for the role of immigrants in the community. What I believe is we need a Marshall plan for America and I wish that we had a White House economic council. I did this bill with Marco Rubio that actually looks at Johnstown
[00:21:30] that looks at Warren Ohio that looks at Milwaukee and that says not only advanced manufacturing we we should put tech jobs there AIM is there healthcare and let's have an economic renaissance in this country and bring the country together and that to me uh we should be arguing in the parties of how we do that uh and I have a different view on some of the policies I articulated but that should be the goal >> if you look at if you look if you look
[00:21:56] at promoting that economic exceptionalism there are a bunch of categories where I think the policy has diverged pretty meaningfully and paradoxically the most obvious example is around AI where we've gone from a much more regimented stagegated way of seeing the world and under President Trump and our bestie David Saxs we've gone into a much more open mandate that acknowledges we're in a very tough competition with
[00:22:25] an extremely talented a Chinese competitor. What's your view on some of these groundbreaking areas of tech? How do we think about protection versus how do we think about proliferation? >> Well, that's a big question and uh first we start by saying I I believe AI is going to do more good than bad in the world. I mean, I know that's a simple statement, but there are many people who may not agree with that. uh the the the
[00:22:54] advances it can make in uh human disease and diagnosis of human disease, the advances it can make in uh education curriculum for young people, the advances they can make in production. You know, one of the places we went to in in uh Beijing was Shyomi, the the the factory that makes these phones and I was stunned. I mean, Xiaomi is Yeah. I mean, I was stunned. It's a the AI has these machines that are basically
[00:23:22] putting together the the the phone. I mean, it's a model of the iPhone. >> To your point, we had Josiah, who is the chairman of Alibaba, at the summit. The most incredible thing that Josai said is that by government edict, essentially, they've mandated that 95% of all government institutions need to be running on AI by 2030. where and you and I both know in any western country if such an edict or something happened
[00:23:52] you'd kind of just say let's just discount this essentially to zero maybe maybe it's like PR fluff >> but you know I don't know Jason what you thought but I was sitting there thinking the only country that can probably pull this off is the Chinese because if >> UAE top down you can you can yeah mandate it. Yeah. So to your point, Ro, like we're going to have an incredibly formidable competitor and so in some
[00:24:16] ways like the infighting and the ranker just needs to get dialed down otherwise we're going to miss the conditions on the field. And you know just to maybe pivot to this, you're on the verge of a shutdown. Can you walk us through the inside baseball of what's happened over the last few days, where we are, what the sticking point is, and what you think the odds are that that this thing will get resolved, and what happens if
[00:24:42] there's a shutdown? Can you just walk us through all of that? >> Sure. Just two two points on on on AI, though. We do need to think about the job displacement and what we what we can do as a country. I I believe the federal government has to step in uh for young people in particular to say look you can work for a few years if you can't find a private sector job in helping on child care, elder care, your communities,
[00:25:03] healthcare, government services. Maybe we make AI so that the DMV works better and and you know people start to think that the the government services actually are effective. But I I think there has to be a lot of thought put in uh to the displacement and being a ahead of the ahead of the curve. The only thing I'd say about China is while they're formidable, the one statistic that made me think we've got a lot of
[00:25:27] things right here that they haven't 20% youth unemployment in China. And that's because there all these college graduates, they don't want to work at on a factory line. Uh and I I tease Lutnik about screws on the iPhone or something. you know a lot of college graduates they didn't they didn't want to do that in China and uh at the same time not everyone is going to be like making EVs and so in our country you do a lot of
[00:25:53] what that Chinese would say silly things like you make dating apps and you make comedy apps and you make sports apps and you do a lot of other things and they don't have that and I think the that gives us a huge advantage uh in terms of the creativity and the and the culture if we can get the basics right now the government shut down the the fight first is over something that I'm biased but I fundamentally believe is is a basic
[00:26:17] principle which is if Congress passes something like the president has to spend what Congress passes it's it's not discretionary you know Federman said elections matter well the elections to Congress matter too and you can't >> you may you may just want to explain to the audience because I'm not sure all of us are up to speed on exactly the thing that that is happening >> so Trump said this view that okay spending is too high these agencies are
[00:26:39] wasting money. Uh, I'm going to come in and I'm going to make certain decisions about cutting spending that that Congress may have appropriated. He did this on foreign aid. He's done it on some of the things with Department of Education. We can go through other programs. Uh, I I got into an argument with with Elon when he was there. I originally said, "Look, I'm open to working uh with Doge if they're reasonable uh things that we can save,
[00:27:03] but you got to do it through a process." and they have a view. Their view is, well, Congress is never going to do this, so we're just going to go there and we're going to do it. And uh that's not the way the Constitution works. And so, you can't expect Democrats to say, "Okay, we're going to give you our votes for a budget if it's all discretionary and Trump can do whatever he wants anyway with the budget." And that's
[00:27:22] that's the basic uh fault line. The second argument is over over healthcare. Uh this is just factual. If the tax credits expire on the exchange, people who are paying about $7,000 on the exchange would go up to about $21,000. I mean, you basically be kicking off a ton of people on the exchanges. Uh, and Democrats just can't do that. Now, you can say, well, uh, you lost the election. Then I have no problem getting
[00:27:53] rid of the filibuster, and the Republicans have the votes in the Senate and the House and the pre Trump, and they can, uh, they can pass pass the budget. But my my hope is that they will realize that these tax credits are worth saving, that they're not going to want people kicked off health care and they're not going to want these premiums going up high and then that will be the deal. >> Ro, the argument on the other side
[00:28:15] >> says that the the tax credits and the health care subsidies will largely go to folks that are here illegally. Can you confirm or debunk that? First of all, it's a it's a very small uh portion of people uh that we're talking about. So 90% uh is not uh anything to do with those who are undocumented. That's just the math, right? I mean, so we can argue about the 10%. But we have in this country something called uh emergency
[00:28:43] Medicaid. What does that mean? If you're undocumented and you show up to the hospital, we will take care of you. I believe that is correct. I don't think if you're undocumented and you show up to a hospital that you should be denied care. Well, who pays for that? We have an emergency Medicaid program. And I guess if you mean that when you fund Medicaid, when you fund the Affordable uh Care Act that uh you're saying you're
[00:29:08] funding some of it for undocumented people who are showing up in uh in emergency situations, then yeah, you're you're you're funding that. Uh but the my view of it is that let's be honest that that's not where the big money and the budgets are. You're talking about a small group of folks. You can argue the cultural point about it. Uh but don't uh don't make that the the numbers. >> So So for the average person watching
[00:29:35] listening, what technically happens if there's a shutdown? Like what happens to their everyday lives? Well, first of all, it's a it's bad for some of the public servants, right? Will the capital police will police officers get paid? Will uh will military get paid? Will people if they have a family member who is in government service, will they get paid? And they just may as Americans or family members care about that or you're
[00:30:00] going to have people without pay. Second, there will be some services that'll start getting cut, right? Like if you're flying a plane, you may not notice it for a few days, but then after a few weeks, you're saying, "Oh, they have less government uh less flights because we don't have enough people showing up or staffing at the airports and uh some of the parks may shut down." Uh things that involve the government
[00:30:21] that aren't national security uh urgent are going to get affected. >> Let's um talk a little bit about the censorship issue. This has come up multiple times. It's a culture issue for sure, but why are both sides so obsessed with this? And how do we get this uh resolved between both sides? And then there's another both sides issue, which is political speech that's violent. Fight like hell, Trump is Hitler. The
[00:30:47] stuff that I don't hear you saying, but that we do. >> Steven Miller is a fascist. >> Steven Miller saying it the other day. Yeah. Tweeted it out. >> He's he's gone full Trump in terms of the dueling. I I wouldn't I wouldn't call it full Trump. I would just say it was really trolling issues each other. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, look, there's a way to to to to argue. I' I've gone back and forth with Steven Miller and and he we we have
[00:31:13] exchanges. I've gone back and forth with Vice President Vance. I mean, sometimes I think some of it is iner, but the point is it's within a bounds. You're not he he's not uh saying, you know, uh deport row. uh and I'm not uh uh using the words of uh Hitler or or other things in in in talking about him. I mean you can have spirited debate uh in a way that uh isn't polyianish uh is tough but respects certain norms that