[00:00:00] Ro, how many times have you been on the pod now? Is this number four for you? Three or four? >> No, this is my uh fifth time. >> Oh, wait. Sorry. I'm not Ro. Sorry. Over to Roan. Sorry. >> We all look the same. >> You're Sri Lankan. He's Indian. I know the difference. >> We all look the same, bro. We all look the same. >> It's like you're saying to the Irish guys. >> That's how that's how I won my seat. I just had Indian-Americans, every
[00:00:21] Indian-American go knock on doors and say, "I'm Roana." You know, they all thought I they thought the candidate came to every door. I'm going. >> All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crushed your questions a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That
[00:00:43] was fun. That was great. going. >> I will say one of my appearance, I think this is number four, but one of them was on election night and it was uh with uh Trump uh Trump Trump's son uh Donald Trump Jr. and I actually ran into him in the green room right before we were doing Squawkbox and he brought up the uh Pod interview. So there you go. Bringing bringing the sides together. >> It's been pretty amazing. I think it's a
[00:01:11] good place to start. how successful uh Indian-Americans have become and a really important topic I think for us to kick off with maybe this time on your fourth appearance is uh immigration H-1Bs. What's your take broadly on what we're seeing out of the Trump administration on maybe trying to correct the abuse in these systems uh and maybe uh monotize them and and maybe do you think that's a good strategy for correcting the abuse? First of all,
[00:01:40] there's definitely abuse. Uh second, it definitely needs to be corrected. The uh reality is that the some of the H-1B visa holders are uh being paid below market wages. Some of them are not going to super talented individuals or in the uh jobs that actually require a lot of skill. And I had a bill, a bipartisan bill actually, that uh would have reformed it, requiring paying a prevailing wage, requiring um making
[00:02:11] sure that the categories actually were skilled categories. I don't love the blanket 100,000 fee. I think that that's not the best way to reform it. But if partly because it puts an unfair burden on startups, it actually may uh hurt with with talent. But if you wanted to say, look, there's going to be some prevailing wage standard and we need reforms. I'm open open to that. >> Do you think that the president is on
[00:02:35] the right direction then in actually trying to reform the system? >> Yeah, I I I don't I I think in terms of reforming the system, he's in the right direction. I don't you know, I don't agree with the specifics of require the way he's doing it. Uh like many things, I think sometimes he identifies the right issue and he has a solution that I I don't agree with. Uh but the the the reality is that it has to be reformed. I
[00:02:58] mean I and anyone in Silicon Valley, you guys know this. I mean it's it's been abused. It's been abused by uh some of the mass uh IT outsourcing firms that just uh just have people coming. >> It's been very it's been very difficult to find some of the the best young minds to work at our startups to your point Ro because it has been gamed and the people that have perfected the application process have won the H-1Bs. And I think
[00:03:23] that that's where these systems go off the rails because it should be, as you said, the really talented young men and women that moved to the United States supported by an American company trying to do something ambitious. It should not be because you know how to apply multiple times through multiple shell companies. >> Yeah, I agree. And as you know, some of the outsourcing consulting companies, I don't want to go through all the names,
[00:03:49] but you know what they are. or taught at Consulting or Cognizant or others, they've gained the system and they get a a bulk of those uh H-1Bs and that needs to stop and there needs to be uh actual talent. But I want to make a point. I was just in China. We had gone to a bipartisan delegation there. Onethird of the AI talent is in China according to a lot of uh the reports. And so I want some of those folks to come to the
[00:04:15] United States so we can stay ahead of of AI. So there are legitimate uses of the H-1B program. Uh and what we need to do is fix uh fix the program so you can have the legitimate talent still coming to Silicon Valley and around the nation. >> Do you think that for that cream skimming things like national interest waiverss and 01 visas and EB1s and EB5s, do you think that those are sufficient to accomplish the task of that or it
[00:04:44] should be factored into the H1B program itself? I think there needs to be an H-1B program. I don't I don't think the national waiver and the the other programs are uh are enough. A lot of times, you know, look how Sundra Pachai came or Satya came who are now leading Google and Microsoft. They came uh they they studied here uh and then they got uh an H-1B. But I would also make it that you don't stay on an H-1B
[00:05:07] indefinitely, that we move towards a green card, which by the way, President Trump said on your show in your one of your episodes, he said, "I'm going to make sure that we actually move folks quickly uh to a green card." That to me seems like a a win-win because you're then not exploiting an individual. you're going to pay them the market wage as they have flexibility of moving uh and uh at the same time that they're
[00:05:34] going to stay in the United States instead of going back to to China or or to to India. By the way, a lot of these companies that if you just limit H-1Bs, they all have overseas uh a lot of the big companies have overseas headquarters. So, they're going to just offshore the jobs instead of bringing the jobs here. Bro, one of the one of the points that Jason has made really well actually consistently for years is
[00:05:57] in order to fix the immigration system, I think the first thing you have to do is rebuild trust in the immigration system. >> Fair point. >> And one of the things that the president has done is effectively now completely sealed the border. And I think the stat that he said is that since January, literally there have been no illegal immigrants at the southern border. I'm presuming it's probably similar at the northern border as well.
[00:06:20] Can you just talk about that part of the immigration spectrum and what you think the positives and the negatives of what has happened over the last nine months? >> We need a secure border. The border uh let we let in too many people under uh the uh Biden administration without uh having uh the proper security. I think the Democrats need to acknowledge that, own up to that and say that we need to make sure that there are uh there is a
[00:06:48] secure border. Now, I don't agree with Trump in the way he's shut down uh basically all asylum claims and and he's just taken it to to to zero. And I don't agree with that approach. But do I think we needed uh to do things to secure the border more? I do. Uh now, the question is, okay, he's done that. I disagree with uh how he's secured it and in that he's basically made asylum impossible. But will he take some of that goodwill
[00:07:16] that he's earned in terms of the trust and do things that I think can be bipartisan in terms of immigration reform? One is an industries uh like agriculture, food production, construction for people who are here, who are paying their taxes, who have been undocumented for a long time. Give them a path to legalization. By the way, you want to see food prices come down, that would be one way to do that in terms of giving those folks a path to
[00:07:42] legalization if they're here. Nonc no criminal record uh and paid uh paid their taxes. And I've seen him sometimes suggest that. >> Yeah, he came out and said it. He said we have to look at it, right? He explicitly said it. >> I'm a Democrat willing to work with him on that. And the second would be on this green card thing, which he said explicitly, which is look, people are here. they if they've gotten get a
[00:08:02] college degree, we're paying for their education. Uh we want them here. I someone comes 600,000 students come from uh 300,000 from China. I'm glad, by the way, the president pushed back against his own base and said that those students should still come because he got a hard time uh saying that they should still come. Well, they come here, they study at Stanford, they study at Berkeley, they study at MIT or Harvard
[00:08:23] or at uh at a state college. We're basically financing in some way their education because all these universities get federal subsidies. Wouldn't you want them to stay here and create the jobs you're an investor instead of going back to China and doing it in Shanghai or Beijing? >> Yeah, I think this is part of the one of the reasons I love having you on the program, Ro, is you take a very first principled and a logical nonpartisan
[00:08:46] approach to this. You just gave Trump his flowers for, hey, good job closing the border. Good job identifying that 80% of Americans agree with that. I'm curious what's going on inside the Democratic party where a large number of people can't seem to give Trump any credit, right, for this basic win and then challenge him and say, "Hey, but this is where we have to go." So, how does the Democratic party look at you,
[00:09:11] your contemporaries, when you're a moderate, when you try to tone things down, when you try to take a first principled, logical approach to these issues? How are you within your own party? Are are you the skunk at the garden party just for saying that Trump actually did something right? >> Well, yeah. And I'm a progressive Democrat, but what I am is a progressive Democrat who's tries to call balls and strikes. And like I said, I don't agree
[00:09:33] with uh all of the policies he's done to to to to shut down the border. But it would be just foolish to think that we didn't have a problem on the border, that we weren't uh didn't have too many people coming in, that we didn't do enough to to strengthen the border. I think that should have been Vice President Harris's answer. what she would have done differently. And she could have even said, "I learned we we
[00:09:54] we we made a mistake. We didn't we we didn't have the the the right uh uh approach on on border security." That look, today I tweeted out something about how I agreed with what Trump's doing on uh the prescription drug uh issue that uh he has a a a government website that is basically going to sell pharmaceutical drugs at a cheaper price. Now, that's a policy that if Bernie Sanders had put forward or Joe Biden had
[00:10:24] put forward, >> that's exactly what I was going to say. Bernie Sanders had put this out. Yeah. Sorry. Go >> ahead. That we'd all be cheering. I mean, it's not Is it as far as I want? No. But it's a step in that direction. So, I guess my point is, well, why not just then say, "Okay, that's that's good." Or I've been very critical of uh the president's policies on the Middle East, and I was I've been critical of
[00:10:44] the policies of Biden on the Middle East. But today he put forth the plan that the Arab countries are are saying that Hamas should take. So I tweeted out that Hamas should accept this, release the hostages, Israel should withdraw. Now that's because I'm rooting for America to succeed in peace in the Middle East. That doesn't mean that I adopt Donald Trump's policy. But I just think we need as a party to uh to to be
[00:11:08] honest about where uh someone is is is putting forth something that we may agree with and where they're not. Now, of course, he's doing a lot of things that we could get into it that are unconstitutional and that's and he puts does antics like having Jeff in a in a sombrero and and it it you can see why there is such anger. He's been Randon Carr threatening to take Jimmy Kimmel off the air. I mean, threatening
[00:11:35] universities with uh with their speech. So, so there's reason for for the the anger, but I don't think just being anti-Trump is the way back for the Democratic party. Yeah, go ahead. >> Can just just diagnose this for us because I think we've entered a phase of politics where just it seems like decorum has been lost and underneath that is it that there's hatred or is it that there's just incredible competition
[00:12:02] now to accumulate power and win elections? What do you believe is at the root cause of why people can't call balls and strikes? >> I think it's both. It's that uh unfortunately there has been more extremism and hate uh in in our country. I mean people really uh have lost the ability to try to see uh the good in others and to to say look we've got some humility. We may not have all the right answers and we want to engage. I think I
[00:12:30] used to say money in politics is our biggest problem. Now, I believe hate and extremism is our biggest problem in in in this country. And then you're rewarded uh if you do the most outlandish things because we're in an attention economy. And if you pick a fight, people pay attention. Uh and so uh if you're kind of sober, uh you're you're going to lose support from your your own party, your own base. But my my
[00:12:55] hope, and I I hope this for both parties, that after the Trump era, and I think even Trump supporters would acknowledge he's divisive. I mean, look at what he said at Charlie Kirk's uh funeral where Erica Kirk gives this beautiful statement of uh forgiveness and he says, "Well, I can't forgive. I I hate my enemies." But after eight years of that, I really hope that we don't devolve into both sides just hating each other more, mimicking
[00:13:21] Trump's style of communication. I hope uh whoever the Republicans put forward uh will say, "Look, we want to go forward. We want it's a new generation. We've had three 80-year-old presidents in a row in this country. Like we have a new generation of governors and we're going to be aspirational and we're going to talk about positive things and I hope the Democrats will do that." >> Who do you think those are on the
[00:13:41] Democratic side? >> I think there folks that folks like Andy Basher, there's folks like Wes Moore. You know, whatever you think of the three people who are going to win in November, Mumani, Abigail Spanberger, and Mikey Cheryl, you know, one thing all three of those campaigns have in common, they don't spend a lot of time talking about Donald Trump. They're talking about their own vision, their own ideas about what they want to do uh
[00:14:05] for their city, their state, for the country, and the world. And that's what politics should be about. The politics should be about here's what my vision is. Here's my plan. Uh here's where I want to take the nation. By the way, Ro, you know, I don't agree with Ro on Medicare for all. I don't agree with him on where he thinks the tax rate should be. I don't agree with him on having the state play some role in building modern
[00:14:26] factories in in Ohio and this thing he calls economic patriotism. I'm more libertarian. I'm for deregulation. He doesn't understand how you really grow the economy. That's that's what we should be talking about. Uh instead, it's just, you know, everyone's trying to see how they can curse in terms of being authentic as if that makes you intelligent, right? I mean, it's it's actually just the expression of emotion
[00:14:46] without a thought. And I uh I I I'm hoping that we'll have a more serious politics. >> You had a you had a really great moment on a podcast I heard you on. I can't remember which one, but you were saying, "I wonder if comedy is the precursor now. Being funny, uh being witty on programs is like the precursor to to running for president." But let's let's talk about um I think maybe an interesting place to go would be how the
[00:15:12] technology industry how to win that back on the Democratic side. You had essentially the entire industry. You had monopoly. Let's call it what it is. Nine out of 10 95 out of 100 Democrats. >> We even had Shamat. >> You had Shamat. You had Mark Pinkis. I mean listen even inside the cabinet. Bessent Lutnik Trump himself. I didn't know >> they were all Democrats. Yeah. All previous Democrats, including Trump himself. So, is there a road back? And
[00:15:41] then if we were just to do a little, you know, post-mortem on how the tech industry was kind of abandoned, vilified. I know for me as a moderate basically up until this time have been like two out of three times I voted Democrat. Now it's like 6040ish. the banning of the billionaires, the demonization of entrepreneurs. It it must have been uncomfortable for you to watch. And obviously you see the entire um digerati at the White House having
[00:16:11] dinner. You must be thinking to yourself, my god, Biden could have done that at any time. He could have summoned everybody and said, "Hey, come let's talk about your issues." But instead, the industry was vilified. So if you I don't want to spend too much time on it, but what's what's your diagnosis of how that happened? And then how does the Democratic party win back technology and leaders and billionaires?
[00:16:30] >> I do joke that I think the tech industry has become the new uh new new aristocracy. I look at I look at the white house there they are sund Tim Cook and Satya and all the group and then then the king of England King Charles there they are or something. So it's a it's a it's a it's a a group that obviously has a lot of stature and respect. I guess here was my point to the Biden administration that uh they didn't agree with or they ignored. I