[00:00:00] No text I'm very excited to announce that the vice president JD Vance can be with us today. The last time that we saw um the vice president on stage like this at an all-in summit, he wasn't the vice president yet. It was about 10 months ago at the all-in summit that we did last year and uh obviously a lot has changed. I think he's been doing a phenomenal job and making us all proud and uh it's going to be great to catch
[00:00:21] up with him. So with without further ado, Vice President JD Vance. Guys, how are you? Good to see you, man. Good to see you, David. Good to see you. What's up, brother? How are you? Nice to see you. Good to see you. How are you, man? Good to see you. How you doing? Good. So, the last time I did this podcast, I think Jason was a huge to me because the vice president, you seem to be nice to me now, Jason. Oh, it's on. Well, okay. Let me get my
[00:00:51] list of topics. He was hoping you'd give him a White House tour later today, so we'll see how this goes. You're you're welcome to have a White House tour. Really? I know a guy. I asked David three times. I know a guy. His his invitation's been lost in the mail a few times, but Well, no, actually, listen, if we're starting it out, um, congratulations on a great run. Thank you. I appreciate it. It was fun. You know, we can differ on some of the
[00:01:13] margins. Um, but I just think all Americans appreciate the pace at which, especially in the technology industry, you're going and the effectiveness. So, I just want to congratulate you on that. Sincerely, I appreciate that. No text Uh, okay. So, let's get into uh some topics, right? Uh immigration. When we last talked, you said uh I said, "Hey, you're going to deport 20 million people all at once. That seems quite
[00:01:34] chaotic." And you said, "No, we're going to we're going to do it like a sandwich. Take a couple of bites." Uh how's that going? I think it's going well. I mean, we are criticized, interestingly, by some folks on the right who want the pace of deportations to be higher. And I certainly understand that, frankly, and share that frustration. The counterargument is the courts are trying to step stop us at every step of the
[00:01:54] way. And until about a month ago, we didn't have the resources for ICE to actually get this massive invasion that Joe Biden led into our country. We didn't have the resources necessary to actually process a lot of those people. That has changed because of the big beautiful bill. We've also gotten some court case wins. So, I expect uh that the pace of deportations will increase a little bit. But importantly, when people
[00:02:15] criticize us and they say, you know, sometimes I'll hear this criticism, well, the pace of deportations from the Trump administration is actually lower than it was in the B administration. And that's actually a completely fake statistic. It's based on the fact that if you come into the country illegally and then the Biden administration processes you and sends you out, that counts as a deportation. It counts as an
[00:02:34] illegal immigration and then it counts as deportation. So, you have to look at the net number, right? If you do plus one minus one, I'm not a math expert, but I'm pretty sure that's zero. The net number is what really matters. And where the Trump administration, where we've been most wildly successful is that we have I think in 2025, we will have the first net negative immigration number in about 50 or 60 years in the United
[00:02:57] States. And so there has been a major a major major shift in immigration policy. Now again, I I'm I'm like, you know, me and Steven Miller are probably the two most hardline people in the entire administration when it comes to immigration. So there's always more that we can do. And like I said, I think that there is more that we can do. But if you just look fundamentally what people said is that if you actually take border
[00:03:22] enforcement seriously, the entire economy is going to collapse. Inflation's going to go through the roof. Housing costs are going to go through the roof. And if you look, while there's still a lot more to do, inflation has cooled. Housing costs are now showing signs of peaking. I think according to Zillow, over the past 12 months, housing costs have gone up8%. Uh the previous the Biden administration, they basically nearly doubled the cost
[00:03:45] of a mortgage for an average family. So there there are a lot of things that we're showing work and we're showing importantly that it turns out if you put your faith in American workers, you can build great companies, you can build a great economy. You don't have to build an entire economy on illegal labor, which is what the Democrats told us we had to do. So, we're not just doing a good job. I think we're also proving out
[00:04:06] the use case and proving out what the Trump campaign said that it was going to do in the Trump administration. And President Trump, I think, um, came out and said, "Hey, we maybe should appreciate some of these immigrants who've been here for 20 years and maybe give them a path to citizenship. Maybe think about restaurants and farms and maybe show some compassion to those people." And I think the objection perhaps uh that some of us have is the
[00:04:30] the style in which you're doing it a little aggressive what happened in LA and um you seem to maybe internally in uh the administration found a middle ground maybe and listen to the other side and maybe our opinions on it. Well, first the the Trump administration obviously is a big group of people with a lot of different opinions and we all have to talk about this stuff and try to come up with the right decision. But the
[00:04:53] the Trump the administration the decision maker is of course one man. Yeah. And while he listens to everybody he's ultimately going to make the decisions that he thinks are best for the country and then we go and execute that after of course having a big a big conversation around the inner circle. You know what what the president has said is number one we're not going to do amnesty in this country. We're we're actually not
[00:05:12] going to tell people who have come into the country illegally that they're allowed to break our laws and be rewarded for it. We're just not going to do that. But there are a whole host of other ways when we talk to you know agricultural um industries and others where they say well you know we really need labor. Well there are a whole host of ways in which you can try to solve those problems. My favorite solution for
[00:05:31] those problems is automation right. Uh I actually think there's a lot of evidence that the American agricultural economy is a little behind the eightball when it comes to using technology. There are ways where we're talking about facilitating the use of automation. So we're not going to have amnesty. We also recognize that there are a lot of industries out there we want to thrive and I think the president is trying to
[00:05:51] strike the right balance. And Jason, you said something about compassion and I think this is really important. I I do think that we we we have to make a stronger argument here. There's nothing discompassionate or there's nothing hateful about enforcing your own borders. It's a question of do you facilitate Thank you guys. But do you facilitate these Mexican drug cartels, the drug trafficking that they're engaging? Of
[00:06:15] course not. the hundreds of thousands. I'm not saying you would ever say this, but the hundreds of thousands of missing children under the Biden administration. The fact that some of these young girls are being sex traffked by Mexican drug cartels. When you enforce the nation's border laws, that is the most compassionate thing to do both for your own people, but also for the people who are legally. Yeah, I agree on the border.
[00:06:34] No text Let me uh shift to AI for one second. In I think it was February, I want to get the date right. Um you went to France and then you went to Germany and these were two incredibly iconic speeches. one on AI and then one at the Munich Security Conference. Um, and I think it was a in many ways an incredible moment where you just started to establish American priorities again abroad. Can you just go into the strategy of those
[00:06:59] speeches and where they came from and just the bigger arc of the first six to nine months and what the goals were? Yeah. So for the AI summit, the president really wanted me to do this and of course, you know, happy to go to Paris and give a speech and talk about American priorities. But there there was this big moment we thought we had an opportunity to sort of p plant our flag and say America is done with the
[00:07:21] overregulating with the constant worrying about the future. We're going to lean into the future. We're going to embrace the future and try to make sure America dominates in the future. And that's such a radical departure from both the safetyism of the Biden administration, but also frankly the safety of a lot of our friends in Europe. And I had been, you know, there for about 24 hours. I had met with with with Emanuel Mcronone,
[00:07:42] the leader of of France. Had a good conversation and and a lot of the other people in Europe. And the thing that I kind of picked up is that they're so terrified about the problems with AI. And to be clear, there are problems with AI. But if you're so terrified with the problems with AI, you don't actually embrace the potential, then you're going to get the worst of the problems without any of the benefits, the upside of it.
[00:08:05] And that's what I think was so broken about our administration's um approach during the Biden years. And it's what's so different about our our actual administration here uh during the Trump years. So our attitude is yeah, there are some consumer protection issues. There are some data privacy issues. We don't want the AI companies to do what the big tech companies did in 2020 and 2021, which is steal people's data and
[00:08:29] then censor an entire large swath of the American people for saying things that were said to be conspiracies, but later turned out to be true. We're not going to do that, but we're also going to embrace innovation. We're going to make sure that America stays at the the the leading edge of the artificial intelligence boom. And we think when that happens, it's going to create a lot of jobs. It's going to create a lot of
[00:08:49] productivity. We talked about agriculture. I think it's going to lead to a new food revolution where we can grow a lot more food on a lot less land. There there's just a whole host of things that being forward focused on technology can bring to this country. And that is the story. I think the story of American entrepreneurship and American economic growth is that when we grow through technology and development
[00:09:11] and productivity that enters to the benefit of all Americans and makes us more powerful and more wealthy. When we try to grow our economy, frankly, through importing cheap labor, that I think is a dead end. We've taken that pathway for far too long in this country. The Trump administration is going to take a different path. No text What about relativism? So, uh, just framing up the big open question about our relationship with China. There's
[00:09:34] there's trade discussions going on, but China this week, it was it was revealed or announced has sold off half their treasury, US Treasury holdings. Um, as you look at the technology uh curve in China, the fiscal situation and the difference between the two, how much should our policy be informed relative to China where we sit with China versus forget about China, let's just make America great and focus on creating jobs
[00:09:58] and moving our industries forward. Yeah, it's it's got to be a little bit of both. And I you know, it's always tough to strike the right balance. I mean, look, China is our biggest economic competitor in the entire world. uh when you look at their technology industry, I think it's the only tech industry, especially when it comes to things like AI where they're even sort of knocking on the door of America. Now,
[00:10:18] I still think that we have the best hardware. I think that we have the best software. I still think that we're the most technologically forward economy. Uh but our but our, you know, our edge is not something we can sort of rest on our laurels. So I think it is useful to look to the Chinese to benchmark our own progress and to say that if we're regulating ourselves to death and allowing the Chinese to catch up to us.
[00:10:36] That's not something frankly we should blame the Chinese for. That's something we should blame our own leaders for for having stupid policies that allow other countries to catch up to America. So it's a useful benchmark, but I still think fundamentally we have to take the attitude of, you know, we want the world to be built, I think, on an American technology stack, not on a Chinese or some other country's technology stack.
[00:10:58] And if you're too focused on the relative comparison and not focused enough on just building and creating great things, I think that it can become a little bit of a crutch and a little bit of a I I don't know, an impediment to focusing on your own stuff and doing your own thing. And it's why we have a great AISAR here and David Sachs. But we're we're really focused on how does America just do as well as we possibly
[00:11:21] can. Yes, we want to stay ahead of China, but we want to stay ahead of everybody else because this is America and we want it to stay the greatest country in the world. And related to that, does that mean American businesses should be allowed to sell into China, participate there as a customer market? And if so, in the trade negotiations, is there a push for par so that American businesses can operate in China or elsewhere in the world as
[00:11:42] easily as those companies can operate in America? Yeah. So, as the president said, it's it's a bit of a balance, right? There are certain critical elements of our technology stack. There are certain critical technologies. We know that some Chinese firms engage in IP theft. So, we don't want to give them our very best stuff because we're worried a little bit that they might steal it. But of course there are certain industries that we
[00:12:03] want to sell into China. We actually want to broaden American workers access to the world. And part of our frustration with China is on the one hand they steal some of our newest technology and on the other hand they don't let Americanmade products into their country. What we want to do is actually reverse that. We want to sell Americanmade products into China but we don't want to allow them to steal our critical intellectual property. And we
[00:12:26] have to strike that balance in a much better way than not just the Biden administration, but better than the the the the Obama administration and the Bush administration did, too. But striking that balance is something I think the president's very focused on. I'm certainly very focused on. And we've now got a much better approach now than we have in a long time in this country. No text How do you think it plays out for not
[00:12:46] China or the United States, but all of the other sort of smaller countries when AI gets to scale? Can how do you think strategically the chessboard ends up being organized? Is there a new form of the United Nations? Is there a new form of NATO but more productive? Like how do you think it plays out for the 180th country in the world when they need things? Yeah, it's it's a very interesting question and I don't want to you know
[00:13:09] predict the future too much here. It's always a fraugh business especially in politics. But you know what one of the things that's interesting a foreign leader came to me relatively recently. This is actually last week. um small country but very important country strategically very good ally of the United States and basically pitched me on creating a NATO alternative outside of Europe but where countries that were
[00:13:33] aligned with the United States built on the same technology stack there was a shared sort of you know shared access to technology shared access to certain weaponry and so forth and he was like we really want to be part of team America but there isn't even an existing infrastructure that would allow us to be team America And I had never thought about it in that way. I haven't even talked to the president yet about it.
[00:13:52] But it's interesting that world leaders are coming and saying this is how we're thinking about the future. And and the technology piece of it is a very critical angle because as you guys probably appreciate, I assume the audience appreciates is that you know sometimes when you build with with Chinese firms or Chinese technology, it seems like a pretty good deal, right? Larry Summers once had this famous quote
[00:14:14] that you know when in Africa when developing countries talk to the United States and talk to um China. The the Americans show up with a moral lecture and the Chinese show up with a bag of money. Well, you know the bag of money obviously I prefer that to the moral lecture. But you realize that bag of money sometimes comes with debt servitude. It sometimes comes with a sort of neoc colonial control of the host country. What a lot of nations are
[00:14:39] realizing is they're not just showing up with a bag of money and we'd much rather be on team America, but it does require much more forward leadership. And you the B administration I I don't know what it was, but there was just this deepseated fear of the future. I'm sure it was motivated by having a president who didn't necessarily know where he was from from day to day, but there was there was on the Sorry,