[00:12:46] China or the United States, but all of the other sort of smaller countries when AI gets to scale? Can how do you think strategically the chessboard ends up being organized? Is there a new form of the United Nations? Is there a new form of NATO but more productive? Like how do you think it plays out for the 180th country in the world when they need things? Yeah, it's it's a very interesting question and I don't want to you know
[00:13:09] predict the future too much here. It's always a fraugh business especially in politics. But you know what one of the things that's interesting a foreign leader came to me relatively recently. This is actually last week. um small country but very important country strategically very good ally of the United States and basically pitched me on creating a NATO alternative outside of Europe but where countries that were
[00:13:33] aligned with the United States built on the same technology stack there was a shared sort of you know shared access to technology shared access to certain weaponry and so forth and he was like we really want to be part of team America but there isn't even an existing infrastructure that would allow us to be team America And I had never thought about it in that way. I haven't even talked to the president yet about it.
[00:13:52] But it's interesting that world leaders are coming and saying this is how we're thinking about the future. And and the technology piece of it is a very critical angle because as you guys probably appreciate, I assume the audience appreciates is that you know sometimes when you build with with Chinese firms or Chinese technology, it seems like a pretty good deal, right? Larry Summers once had this famous quote
[00:14:14] that you know when in Africa when developing countries talk to the United States and talk to um China. The the Americans show up with a moral lecture and the Chinese show up with a bag of money. Well, you know the bag of money obviously I prefer that to the moral lecture. But you realize that bag of money sometimes comes with debt servitude. It sometimes comes with a sort of neoc colonial control of the host country. What a lot of nations are
[00:14:39] realizing is they're not just showing up with a bag of money and we'd much rather be on team America, but it does require much more forward leadership. And you the B administration I I don't know what it was, but there was just this deepseated fear of the future. I'm sure it was motivated by having a president who didn't necessarily know where he was from from day to day, but there was there was on the Sorry,
[00:15:02] it's over. You won, JD. You won. We still get to have a little fun with a couple. It's okay. But look, but there was just this really weird fear of the future that I think is totally absent in the Trump administration. It makes our politics much better. Are you comfortable with a multi-olar world or do you still think that there should be American primacy on a global stage? I I mean I I I I think it's an abstract
[00:15:24] question that's interesting, but fundamentally in some ways the world is going to be multipolar in the sense that there are different Yeah, we want regional allies to step up. I mean, you've heard the president say this before. you know, we we'd love a Middle East where we have to spend a little bit less time and a little bit less money and our regional allies, both, you know, Israeli and Arabs, step up in a bigger
[00:15:42] way. We'd like to see that, of course, in Europe. And I think one of the big accomplishments of the president in the first term, something that the media still doesn't give him enough credit for, is he actually got NATO to step up and make major security commitments about their own sector of the world. Now, that's sometimes interpreted as, well, America doesn't like Europe anymore. No, we like Europe so much that
[00:16:02] we want Europe to step up and take a little bit more self-control of its own continent. Of course, we're going to be their friends and of course we're going to work with them, but we we definitely see a world where some of our regional allies step up a little bit more. I think that's a good thing. Of course, they're going to be ali allied with the United States, aligned with the United States in important ways. But other
[00:16:22] countries taking a bigger a bigger role in their own self-defense and in their own region. That's fundamentally a good thing for America. It also feels, I think, more fair to the American people when the president is able to negotiate the rare earth deal with Ukraine and say, "Hey, if you want weapons, that's fine, but it's on a loan lease. You got to pay for them. They're not free." Um, I think one of your great
[00:16:41] No text strengths is your empathy for the working men and women of this country. And uh one of the big discussions we're having in our industry, which will fall on your plate, um in your career is going to be job displacement. So I'm wondering how the administration thinks about that. For every self-driving car we put on the road, that's four drivers who are going to have their jobs retired. They'll be displaced. For every
[00:17:04] Optimus robot or humanoid robot that eventually makes it into a factory, that'll be five or six factory jobs. Uh you spoke about the agricultural jobs as well. So how do you think about that automation and the pace at which it's going to happen? Because if you ask anybody in technology, none of us have the answer of how quickly this will happen. We are optimistic of course, but there could be displacement. If there is
[00:17:27] displacement, who's responsible? The administration, the technologists who cause it, the free market, nobody. And we'll just let the chips fall where they may. What do you think, JD? Well, a a couple of thoughts on this. So f first of all, I am a little bit more optimistic about automation. And I if if you look at some of the doom narratives about automation, you know, the robots are coming to take all of our jobs. If
[00:17:50] the robots were coming to take all of our jobs, you would see labor productivity skyrocketing in this country, but you actually see labor productivity flatlining. And what that means actually is that our country is underexed in technology and not overindexed in technology. Maybe we're overindexed in software, but we're underindexed in the real kind of technology that boosts productivity. So, I'm not saying there won't be job
[00:18:12] displacement, but I always think of the example of the bank teller. And in the 1970s, when the ATM machine, the automated teller machine was created, there was a whole host of articles about how this would destroy a ton of middle class jobs in the banking sector. What actually happened is we have more bank tellers now than we did in the 1970s. they do slightly different jobs and they're more productive and they earn
[00:18:34] higher wages, but I think that's the story of technology. Productivity is fundamentally good. Now, now there is a a displacement that I worry about and I I you know I was frankly not even aware this was an issue until a couple of weeks ago and I'm trying to dig into it a little bit which is where on the one hand you see some Silicon Valley technology firms especially the big firms say that they are desperate for
[00:18:54] workers that they can't find for work workers that they have to use you know overseas visa programs to find workers and yet at the same time the college educated employment rate for STEM graduates in this country seems to be declining. Yep. Well, wait a second. If you're not hiring American workers coming out of colleges for these jobs, then how can you say that you have a a massive shortage in these jobs? And by the way,
[00:19:18] you see some big tech companies where they'll lay off 9,000 workers and then they'll apply for a bunch of overseas visas. And I I sort of wonder that doesn't totally make sense to me. The math doesn't that that displacement and that math worries me a bit. And what the president has said, he said very clearly, we want the very best and the brightest to make America their home. We want them to build great companies and
[00:19:38] so forth. But I don't want companies to fire 9,000 American workers and then to go and say we can't find workers here in America. That's a story. What did Microsoft say when you uh brought that up with Microsoft? I have I I it's Have you talked to them about it? I have I have not. I just became aware of this a couple weeks ago. Somebody sent me an article about this and they said, "Well, you know," and it maybe it
[00:20:01] was Microsoft that fired, I think, 9,000 people. And then I was like, "Wait a second." Record profits, record market cap, and but also saying they're they're desperate for workers. So, I have not yet had that conversation with Microsoft. In my defense, I just found out a four-year college degree the wrong answer. So the this is this is really important because like so much of our system the American dream sorry to cut
[00:20:25] your mouth off but just a follow on to this like has been degraded by this idea that everyone should get a college degree then they end up with $100,000 of debt and they can't get enough of an income to get themselves out of that debt. What's the right solution in this evolution in the workforce and this evolution under this uh this AI transition that we're experiencing? Yeah. So one I I agree with that though
[00:20:46] I think it's it's a slightly different question right you can believe that you want American firms to hire American college graduates but then also wonder if the college education system we have in this in this country is broken and I certainly think that it is. I mean, you know, one, I I really, you know, when I went to I went to Ohio State for undergrad and then Yale Law School. When I was at Yale, I guess this is 2010 to
[00:21:08] 2013, I felt like it was a very leftleaning place, but it was still fundamentally a place where you could debate ideas, where you wouldn't be penalized for stepping outside of the orthodoxy. When I talk to college kids, when I talk to 21-year-olds at some of these universities, some of them feel like they're living in like a North Korean totalitarian style dictatorship where the social unemployment cost of saying anything outside of the Overton
[00:21:34] window is so severe. That's not a useful social institution. Like I want colleges to promote free thinking, even dangerous ideas. You know, challenge those ideas. Maybe some of them are wrongs, maybe some of them are right. But if you as a college are actually promoting social conventional thinking, then you're not serving your fundamental purpose. And I think the entire university system in this country is broken because of that
[00:21:57] fact. I want to go back to building great companies for a second. Um, America, I No text think sometimes we lost our footing over the last 20 years because we weren't able to think strategically outside the lenses of just the United States. And what I mean specifically is if you look in China, they were able to pick eight or nine industries and say we need to have national champions because they are just so fundamentally critical to
[00:22:21] national security, population health, economic vibrancy, etc. I think it was a couple weeks ago and Jim Latinsky is going to come on later, but we did a version of that deal where the DoD partnered with an American company who has a mine in America. We're going to bring these rare earths. We're going to manufacture them here. We're going to do the entire supply chain here. Do you think that that's a one-off thing or how
[00:22:43] do you see the public private partnership in that gray area in the middle evolve when we think about these strategic priorities like AI? Yeah. So Shabbath, if you think about the great era of American economic dominance, right? It's the 40s, it's the ' 50s, it's the 60s, it's when we were so far ahead of the rest of the world that, you know, e economically it just felt like nobody could possibly catch up to us. And back in that area era, one of
[00:23:07] the great things that worked was true public private partnerships where we let the free market, we let private industries do what private industries were really good at. But we had a discrete goal in public policy and we tried to facilitate it. Right? There were certain basic research things that didn't make sense in a um in a private sector context, but maybe they made sense for the country overall. There are
[00:23:26] certain, you know, weapon systems that maybe weren't profitable. We were going to make them profitable because they were important for American national security. Of course, the entire moon landing is a story of a great public private partnership that produced a whole host of great technological development and economic benefit downstream. I I I I do think that we're taking a very discreet view of certain industries, of certain core
[00:23:48] technologies, certain core weapons systems, and saying the United States is not going to allow our industrial base, our technology base to atrophy anymore. You've seen some stuff out of that. I mean, we're only six months into this thing, and I think we've done a hell of a job. I'm obviously biased, but we we're only six months into this. You're going to see a lot more over the next three and a half years. You've been working with uh as we wrap
[00:24:07] here. I know you're very busy. Um you've No text been working with David for the last 6 months at the White House. Take us into uh you know the cafeteria, the messaul, you and Sachs and Trump. Do you have do you have a recollection of a great Sax story behind the scenes with the president yourself maybe going downstairs getting like a little Mickey De's or something? I know you're a fan. Well, okay. I I I have one David Sach
[00:24:31] story. I was actually in the Navy mess, which is sort of the cafeteria and the White House. And we're sitting down there and we're eating lunch and uh some some young kid, I don't I I don't know if it was a White House intern or somebody walks over, they see David Sax, oh, David Sachs. And they were so impressed and they look at me and they go, "Oh, shit." Also impressive. Yeah. And so like, oh, there's there's
[00:24:53] the vice president. So, you know, even even for the vice president of the United States, we're all just shadows and this is not famous. You can always, you know, start a podcast. That's where you get real fame is podcast. It's it's crazy how many people watch these things. It is. It is. It's definitely crazy. And JD, we are uh rooting for you. We appreciate your service. you've been working very hard and uh we really
[00:25:18] appreciate how open you are to having these discussions full contact uh and being um just really supportive of our industries and that was something uh we didn't have uh in the Biden administration uh not to make it political but we didn't have a seat at the table and now we have David Sachs in the White House. So this is a real turnaround and and we really appreciate you um and what you've done I think you have
[00:25:40] done an incredible job as a vice president. I don't think you go back in history like the last 10 15 who's had as many icon iconic moments as you have had. It's really incredible. So thank you. Appreciate you guys. Appreciate. Good to see you guys. Good stuff. Thank you. Thank you.