[00:15:25] to none. >> Do those monetize on their own or >> do they do monetize, but we also see them as drivers to everything else. Right? So, our products now Raw airs domestically in the US on Netflix, but the um is viewed globally on Netflix every place else. Right? So, outside of the US, Raw, SmackDown, all our shows are on Netflix globally. Monday nights on Netflix globally, Tuesday nights uh NXT, which is our our sort of um
[00:15:57] Triple-A baseball or our college football, if you would. That that airs on the CW across broadcast. Um Friday nights we're on USA uh with NBCU still. We have Saturday nights main event on Peacock. We just did a >> Does Does your audience still have an affinity for live? Are they still big into >> 1,000% so our our biggest events are PLEs. We just did a game-changing announcement where we're we're moving them over to
[00:16:22] ESPN. Here starting up and you know, nobody does large-scale builds to events like ESPN does, so that will be massive for us. Um you know, we've always sort of been in the forefront of that. When when WrestleMania started, it was um closed circuit. You know, we we pioneered closed circuit entertainment where you would go to a theater and watch a broadcast. We pioneered uh pay-per-view industry. When streaming was just coming into play, we were one
[00:16:54] of the first movers into We had our own WWE Network. So, when it was kind of Netflix and us. Um we then realized that over time that's going to be a tech war that we're not suited for. It's not what we do. We pulled out of that. We went over to Peacock. Um we're now on Netflix. We're on ESPN. You know, we're across the board. Can you just bring us behind the scenes in this negotiation cuz you guys just signed a
[00:17:19] huge licensing deal. Maybe you want to tell folks the size of it, but how did you bid people against each other and what were the different things that different folks wanted? Well, the the the beautiful thing about us is with the amount of content we do, we're 52 weeks a year live. So, when you when you talk about a content company that puts out entertainment, we are live Monday nights uh 2 to 3 hours depending on on the on the
[00:17:42] evening on Netflix. Tuesday nights 2 hours on CW, Friday nights 2 hours and half the year is 3 hours on USA. Uh you know, once a month a 3-hour plus PLE, uh Saturday nights main event quarterly or more per year. That's that's all live. That's all content that we're putting out on a regular basis. Um to go back to the live event experience, our live event you know, our ticketing, our live event experience numbers are off the chart and
[00:18:15] that's global. We were just in Paris. Um we did the stadium in Paris. Uh we did Lyon, France on a Friday night. A PLE on a Sunday night in a stadium in Paris, France where we had 30 plus thousand there and then we did uh Monday night Raw from Paris in that same stadium with a little over 20,000 there for TV the next night. Came straight back to the US. So, it's it's every single week that amount of live content.
[00:18:43] >> That's incredible. 500 hours a year. Yeah. But the way to see us is live. Uh this will date me and if anybody is a fan of the band Kiss, Kiss when they were in the '70s were like the hottest live act in the world, but they weren't selling albums. They thought if there's a way we could just get people to experience what we do live on an album, it will change the game for us. They did a live one. It exploded. When when live albums
[00:19:15] didn't sell anything because it captured them live. It's the same for us. I I I say this all the time. If we want to make a WWE fan, if we're working with a partner and they're kind of on the fence or they're not super into what we do, we bring them to what we do live. We bring them to WrestleMania. We bring them to a stadium show. We bring them to an arena event. And when you have 30,000 people to, you know, 50, 60, 80,000 people in a stadium
[00:19:44] going insane. >> Bananas. It is electric. There is no way that you leave there and go, "Eh." You think that's the antidote for social media? I think social media leads you to it, but I think for a lot of people and this is just my fear, but I think COVID the moment in COVID started to maybe show people that like objects aren't where it's at. That experiences Same same one, yeah. are where it's at. And you know, especially shared experience.
[00:20:17] So when you talk about, you know, your relationship with your dad, that was your thing. I hear that all the time. 50% or more of our audience comes with a child. Comes comes with a family member. 40% of our our our fan base is women. We're one of the most diverse sports, if you want to look at it that way, or entertainment products out there. But the thing that I love the most is when I look in the crowd, when I'm running an
[00:20:45] event and I'm in the back and they're panning that crowd on camera and I see what I clearly see as a grandfather with their kids and their grandkids sitting all together freaking out over the show and you know, you know that grandfather was in a Bruno Sammartino and the dad was into The Rock or or Stone Cold and the kids now are into Roman Reigns or Rhea Ripley or you know, um it's it it's amazing and it binds families together. It gives them
[00:21:15] something to enjoy together and those those shared experiences at the end of the day to me a car is only worth the value of if you pack it with your family and you go somewhere with it and you remember the ride. That that to me is it. It's the rest of it is amazing. You're at the White House for the presidential fitness challenge being relaunched. >> Yes. And uh we've talked a lot on the pod about this next generation, maybe
[00:21:39] too much screens, too many video games, not enough in person and obviously fitness is a is a big problem there. So how do we get these kids off the computers and then get them doing physical activity and really enjoying life because when we grew up in the 80s, we didn't have screens, we were out in the streets, we were you know, free-range kids. Everybody on this stage, I'm going to say right, your parents sent you out the door said come
[00:22:03] back when the street lights turn on. That was in Brooklyn, yeah. Yeah, I mean that's what you did, right? And and that's how you grew up, it's how you lived and the experiences that you had and figuring out how to entertain yourself. Yes. The boredom leading to creativity. Yeah. Um and and it was very physical and you grew up physical. We need to change that back to people and and get them to realize that that physicality, there's
[00:22:27] enjoyment in that physicality and there's success in that physicality. One thing for me, when I was a kid and I first wandered into the gym and I learned who Arnold Schwarzenegger was, who I consider one of the great American success stories of all time. He he had a blueprint in his mind as a young kid of what he saw. He saw a a bodybuilder named Reg Park and thought to himself, I'll follow that blueprint, I'm going to be like Reg Park, I'm going
[00:22:53] to become the biggest bodybuilder of all time, I'm going to get into to Hollywood, I'm going to take over Hollywood, then I'm going to get into politics and I'm going to do right like he saw this blueprint and he did it. I saw that same blueprint for me. Right? But what taught me to do those things was athletics. It started with the physical. You both came up with it. >> physical. The gym does not you. Right? Yes. If if you go in the gym
[00:23:18] >> at that gym. >> You you either work hard You wouldn't like it, Jacob. Eat eat right. Eat right. >> Why don't you want to do the bench press after this? We can do it. Me, you and my dummy. But actually let's let's talk about that blueprint first. >> a fitness challenge right here, right now. >> let's go. Let's go. We'll do an all-in fitness challenge. Let me follow me ask you. So you had a blueprint in your mind. I remember, you
[00:23:40] know, I've seen you interviewed before and when you were coming up in the business, you were learning from guys like Shawn Michaels and Ric Flair and you were a student of the game and then you incorporate that into your character your character was called The Game and then hit another level. So you clearly, you know, you were leading the development of that character and I think that over to another level when somehow the character and yourself
[00:24:03] somehow you hit some sort of center >> yeah. Yeah, joined. I guess what does that do in terms of the creative friction that you deal with now running the talent because they have their own blueprints in their mind about where they want to go with their career, but you as running the overall creative have a direction where they want to go. How much friction does that create? It doesn't create friction, it creates a
[00:24:21] partnership. Which is what I love. That one of the favorite parts of my job is to sit down in a room with talent and say, where do we want to go? Where do we want to go with you? How do we want to get there? That's not the conversation of well, I want to be the champion. Okay, okay, everybody does. What is what is what is your story and how do we tell it and who here of these other talent can have a story that goes against your arc to combine
[00:24:47] with their arc to tell a great story, right? Once we start to riff those things, today's world is different. You go back, you know, 40, 50 years, Ivan Koloff was a Canadian guy that played a Russian because we were in the middle of a Cold War and it was the easy thing to do, but you couldn't do that character now because the internet would go like, he's from Canada. Right? It it doesn't work. They know the truth.
[00:25:12] So today you have to sort of blend who you are, real life, with the character that you play and sort of blur this line, blur this line of the fourth wall of was that real or do these guys really not like each other or is that really, you know, while you're putting it together backstage, we're all agreeing on where we want to go and then we tell this story that people cannot tell what's real and what is fantasy and that's when it gets
[00:25:38] magical. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give it up for Triple H. All of that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Phenomenal. Phenomenal. Thank you, sir.
[00:25:58] [Music]