[00:00:02] [Music] 14-time WWE World Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and now he's behind the scenes running World Wrestling Entertainment.
[00:00:17] WELCOME TO THE NETFLIX ERA. WHETHER IT BE A MENTOR, a leader, or an executive, his love and passion for this industry hasn't changed. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the WWE's Paul Levesque. [Music] [Applause] [Music] All right, yeah. Thanks for coming. >> Welcome. So, the the audience may not know this, but I'm a big professional wrestling fan going back to my childhood in Memphis, Tennessee. In Mem- Yeah. In Memphis, we didn't have any
[00:01:07] professional sports growing up. All we had was uh Memphis State Tigers basketball and professional wrestling at the Mid-South Coliseum on Monday nights. That was pretty much it. Jerry Lawler was so popular in Memphis that he could have been elected mayor, and I think he almost was. So, it was really a a wrestling town. But, so growing up, I I you know, I watched you and WWE, and I would say that Triple H was I the
[00:01:31] premier heel champion, the unstoppable force of the whole attitude era. And uh it's a thrill to have you here. And since then, you've transitioned into being the chief creative officer at WWE and had a um huge business career. So, I think we want to talk to you about both those things. Maybe let's start with your career as a performer. And I don't know if people understand everything that goes into being a WWE superstar,
[00:01:54] but you've got to be First of all, you've got to be a tremendous athlete. You're a stunt man because you're doing tremendously dangerous things. You have to be able to cut promos, which means um you're you're basically an actor, but you also have to write your own dialogue. And you've got to be, you know, a charismatic star to all the fans. There's a lot that goes into it. >> How many people are cut out for this
[00:02:16] type of work? Well, it's it's a difficult thing. One of one of my tasks now in my job is finding that next generation of stars, right? So, you know, we have a robust program through college athletics, through an NIL program, through a lot of different avenues where we find talent. But, the the key to it really is comes down to charisma and um you know, your innate ability to connect with people. It's one of the things
[00:02:43] about WWE that I think is remarkable is it's it is a kind of a combination of everything, right? The athleticism, the showmanship, the charisma that you have to have, the um the media skills that we teach from day one coming in the door. All of it. When you leave WWE, whether you've been there for a long time or, you know, if if you've been had any level of success, you are so well suited to do just about anything in life because I I truly feel
[00:03:14] like for a lot of people sometimes can be a lot less about all the things you know and how good you are at them as the charisma to get people to listen to you. And then if you put the right people around you, you can have all the things that you need, but people will follow that leadership. Right? So, even when it comes to politics, it's amazing to me when I walk through the White House um over the last few months, I've been
[00:03:38] there quite a few times, how many people in the White House are huge fans Yeah. of WWE. Um I mentioned this to you backstage, but similar to to David, I had a growing up in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Yes. There's really there wasn't any professional sports. Ultimately, we got the NHL. >> as big a pop as Memphis. Uh and my father and I one of the few things that we were able to bond over was wrestling. And you and
[00:04:04] then your whole progression where you started off as Hunter Hearst Helmsley, which is really what David is like now. And then he became more of a, you know, more of the Triple H heel. But, I wanted to ask you a question about exactly what you just said. And I want you to sort of walk us through the characteristics of these two individuals who have had a very vibrant career in wrestling. Donald Trump, who's now in politics, and
[00:04:27] The Rock, who people say may actually go into politics later. And what you just said is it's an incredible breeding ground for charisma and connecting with people. Yeah, I mean, I think if you go back through history, even in politics, and you look at the person that gets elected in every presidential cycle, it's the most charismatic person on that stage that gets elected president. The the issues are important. The um all all the
[00:04:57] you know, the the real life day-to-day things that are important to people obviously are there, but at the end of the day, they're picking who they like. They're picking who connects with them. They're picking who is charismatic to them. Um you know, Donald Trump was very good in our world of WWE because he was okay to be himself. He was okay to sort of get egg on his face and be embarrassed sometimes. He was okay to put it all out
[00:05:24] there um and just be him, but he's charismatic. He's larger than life. He's not afraid to say what's in front of him, right or wrong. Um The Rock is the same way. That connection with people is really um it's it's In my mind, it is what drives the planet. So, in in wrestling, there's basically heels and babyfaces or faces. Or some variation, right? Nobody in In today's world, there's very few all the way good, all the way bad. Right. And
[00:05:55] actually, that that sort of started to change in the attitude era. I remember when the '80s, when I was growing up, Hulk Hogan was like this superhero type, you know, babyface. And then and you know, I I weirdly always just rooted for the heels. Uh and then Stone Cold You're more fun. Yeah, that's more fun. And then Stone Cold Steve Austin came along, and he kind of was a heel, but all of a sudden everyone's like
[00:06:16] rooting for him. Like, what happened there? And like, did something change in American society or did the product get more sophisticated? I think people became more savvy to how the world really works. Nobody's perfect. And I I I I don't think there's anybody that is uh well, I shouldn't say anybody. There there's certainly people that are just evil in the world, but um you know, most people, the average person, there are people that are
[00:06:41] really good, but somewhere in there's there's some stuff that maybe isn't. Um and and vice versa on that. I think I have a saying in what I do right now. As long as the bad guy, the heel, is justified somewhere in his mind that what he is doing is right. That leads to the best heel, right? It because if 90% of the world disagrees with you, but you believe, "No, you're all wrong. I see this and it is right." You can you can run down that road.
[00:07:13] You're not just trying to be the, you know, the curl your mustache bad guy heel tying people to the railroad tracks. It's real. You feel it, and it's real, and it's why you want to get to that place, right or wrong for most people. So, that the shades of gray I don't know that we necessarily lead society, WWE. I wouldn't want to think that, but I think we reflect it. Well, you did a very good job in the '80s and '90s where you would
[00:07:38] take the geopolitics. I don't know if this was by design. And you take a character and you'd say, "Well, we need to talk about the Middle East somehow. So, okay, we have the Iron Sheik." Right? And you create these characters that would reflect the geopolitical tension of the time. Did Did you find that that was harder to do in this generation or is it harder to do now just because there's still so many potholes or Absolutely. I
[00:08:00] I just think that if you stereotyped somebody into a particular place, a lot of the world would rebel against that. Yeah. Right? Not in a positive way. And and maybe sometimes people that have no real reason to have a position on either side of that, right? Um The one thing about WWE is we're a fun reflection of the world. It's supposed to be fun. It's supposed to be entertainment. It's supposed to be fantastical. It's supposed to um let you
[00:08:30] come to an event for 3 hours and just turn off and enjoy entertainment and and some type of representation of the world that is around you. But, people get lost in it, and they begin to take the representations too seriously sometimes. >> So then, can you contrast and compare then maybe WWE and for a long time, I had a really hard time because of my fascination with wrestling migrating to MMA. But, MMA has really taken over
[00:08:55] um a lot of the zeitgeist, especially amongst younger generations of men. Do you feel pressure to make it more physical or more like it? Or how do you think these two things play in What what role do they play, I guess, maybe in American society? >> I think they're total opposites. Like, MMA is just it's competitive. It's competition. It's that's what it's based on. Though best when and and you can look at that world, and I don't want to get too
[00:09:23] deep into their world, but you have a Conor McGregor come along. If Conor McGregor came out of retirement tomorrow and and said he's fighting in 4 months, it would be massive, right? The amount of people that would gravitate towards that, the ticket sales, the viewership would be intense. When's the last time he fought? And when is the last time he won? Mhm. I couldn't even tell you. It's forever. What what people are buying is that cult
[00:09:47] of personality. Right. >> Right? It's the same in our business. We tell stories. I'm less And and people within our business sometimes take this wrong, but I don't we don't write the shows based on that'll be a great match. We write it on the stories that we can create, the protagonist, the antagonist, how does that work with each other, telling stories that can resonate with people that maybe they've experienced in
[00:10:11] their real life, some type of fantastical version of that. Um So, is there a writers' room? There is a writers' room. We have a large staff of >> Yeah. There's a show right now on Netflix um called Unreal and it is for the first time ever a look behind the scenes at what we do. We let cameras into the writers' room. We let them backstage at our shows. So, you see the production of the shows. You see what goes into it, you know.
[00:10:37] There's months of planning that go into stuff. We're we're looking now at WrestleMania in in Vegas in April and what those matches are going to be and how we want to get there. What is the storyline arc that takes us there over time. Um I would say we're much more akin to like the Marvel Universe where you're planning out long-term where the movies fit and how they go with all the characters than we are you know, direct
[00:11:05] MMA. At the end of the day, direct MMA is or you know, UFC it's you're booking matches and the interest is that guy's really good. He's really good. I'm not sure who's going to win. Let's put them together. When when you get the right personalities involved, then it explodes. Paul, I'm going to go back to this iconic attitude era, which is also what we call it when Chamath has his third glass of red wine at the poker game.
[00:11:30] >> Yeah. It gets a little spicy. Um it got very physical and there's this sort of backyard wrestling and there's this incredible iconic movie The Wrestler. >> Yes. This does take a toll on your body. Although you're not making full contact what what toll has it taken on your body? What toll does it take when you guys are soaring 10 ft, 15 ft in the air at I don't know what you weigh at max weight, 2-300 lbs of just muscle
[00:11:56] landing. Like what happens to your knees, your back, the the whole thing? Yeah, it's a physical business. We have we have a few sayings in our business. One, it isn't ballet. Right? No. Um and and that's not to knock ballet cuz I couldn't do that. Uh though many people would want to see me try. Um it's it's a physical business and no one walks away unscathed. Right. >> Right? But we have probably one of the most robust medical programs in
[00:12:26] athletics. Um so, we're scanning constantly for everything. Um you know, physically as well as head injuries, everything, right? So, we're way on top of that. Didn't necessarily used to be that way. As things have improved, we've gotten there. Um you know, the the trick in our business is to make it look incredibly physical without being incredibly physical. >> with this is, you know, it's been Sachs's dream. He was telling us when we
[00:12:54] were doing the show notes yesterday during the rehearsal, it's been Sachs's dream all this time to be involved in wrestling. He feels like it was like a career path he didn't get to take. So, is there any way, you know, given what you've done that you could lift Sachs right now. Who wants to see him lift Sachs? COME ON NOW. COME ON. TRIPLE H versus So, >> So, so there was a a pitch for me to do that here and put uh David through this
[00:13:22] table. I just want to see you lift him. >> Although when I approached him on it, he said he was holding out for a bigger moment in the Oval Office. So, we're not going to do it here. Come on now. I mean, you know that you can break Freeberg in half. He weighs 110 lbs wet out of the shower. But Sachs, he did the Ozempic and he added 10 lbs of muscle. How How easily can you lift that man? >> It's called a bump, Jason. I'm not I'm
[00:13:45] not ready to take some bumps here today, but >> Let's Let's lift him. Come on. is he's talking about your fandom, but he's walking around back here with a handheld uh speaker and uh he had his own entrance music. His entire run backstage, he's running around like he's getting ready for the main event of WrestleMania before he came out here. So, you're saying you want to lift me? Hey. All right. Okay. Let me ask a a question on the business
[00:14:09] of of wrestling. You got to sign a waiver. Yeah. I'll sign seven. Let's go. We see a lot of bifurcation happening generally in media and content. The live events are just making so much money, whether it's concerts or basketball games and those industries are seeing revenue and profits kind of escalate. And then the traditional broadcast fiction's kind of dying. Like the margins aren't there, the viewership's
[00:14:32] down. How is the bifurcation work for for for your business, digital and kind of like the content stuff that you're doing digitally versus the live? And like is digital still is digital going to be like a growing piece of the business for some time, do you think? Or is it really a live experience? Well, it's a live experience, but I think all those things lead you to the live experience. So, where do you tell the stories that
[00:14:56] get you to want to go to the live event? We tell those stories across digital platforms. We have right around a billion social media followers across the globe. We're one of the the largest social presence. I I'll I'm not a stat guy, so I'll screw some of this up, but number one YouTube channel across all sports. I'm not sure where we're at, but we're in the top 10 of YouTube channels across everything. You know, our social presence is second
[00:15:25] to none. >> Do those monetize on their own or >> do they do monetize, but we also see them as drivers to everything else. Right? So, our products now Raw airs domestically in the US on Netflix, but the um is viewed globally on Netflix every place else. Right? So, outside of the US, Raw, SmackDown, all our shows are on Netflix globally. Monday nights on Netflix globally, Tuesday nights uh NXT, which is our our sort of um
[00:15:57] Triple-A baseball or our college football, if you would. That that airs on the CW across broadcast. Um Friday nights we're on USA uh with NBCU still. We have Saturday nights main event on Peacock. We just did a >> Does Does your audience still have an affinity for live? Are they still big into >> 1,000% so our our biggest events are PLEs. We just did a game-changing announcement where we're we're moving them over to
[00:16:22] ESPN. Here starting up and you know, nobody does large-scale builds to events like ESPN does, so that will be massive for us. Um you know, we've always sort of been in the forefront of that. When when WrestleMania started, it was um closed circuit. You know, we we pioneered closed circuit entertainment where you would go to a theater and watch a broadcast. We pioneered uh pay-per-view industry. When streaming was just coming into play, we were one
[00:16:54] of the first movers into We had our own WWE Network. So, when it was kind of Netflix and us. Um we then realized that over time that's going to be a tech war that we're not suited for. It's not what we do. We pulled out of that. We went over to Peacock. Um we're now on Netflix. We're on ESPN. You know, we're across the board. Can you just bring us behind the scenes in this negotiation cuz you guys just signed a
[00:17:19] huge licensing deal. Maybe you want to tell folks the size of it, but how did you bid people against each other and what were the different things that different folks wanted? Well, the the the beautiful thing about us is with the amount of content we do, we're 52 weeks a year live. So, when you when you talk about a content company that puts out entertainment, we are live Monday nights uh 2 to 3 hours depending on on the on the
[00:17:42] evening on Netflix. Tuesday nights 2 hours on CW, Friday nights 2 hours and half the year is 3 hours on USA. Uh you know, once a month a 3-hour plus PLE, uh Saturday nights main event quarterly or more per year. That's that's all live. That's all content that we're putting out on a regular basis. Um to go back to the live event experience, our live event you know, our ticketing, our live event experience numbers are off the chart and