[00:27:16] physics that you already know about. So for example with alpha fold um the angle of bonds between atoms. um so and make sure that the the alpha fold understood you couldn't have atoms overlapping with each other and things like that. Now in theory it could learn that but it would waste a lot of the learning capacity. So actually it's better to kind of have that as a as a yeah as a as a constraint in there. Now the trick is with all
[00:27:38] hybrid systems is and and Alpha Go was another hybrid system where a neural network learning about the game of Go and what's what kind of patterns are good and then we had Monte Carlo research on top which was doing the planning and so the trick is how do you marry up a learning system with a a more handcrafted system bespoke system and actually have them work well together. Uh and that's that's pretty tricky to
[00:28:00] do. >> Does that sort of architecture ultimately lead to the breakthroughs needed for AGI do you think? Are there deterministic components that need to be solved? >> I think ultimately you what you want to do is um when you figure out something where this one of these hybrid systems, what you want what you ultimately want to do is upstream it into the learning component. So it's always better if you can do endto-end learning and and and
[00:28:20] directly predict the thing that you're after from the data that you you you're given. So um so once you figured out something uh using one of these hybrid systems, you then try and go back and reverse engineer what you've done and see if you can incorporate that learning uh that that that that information into the learning system. And this is sort of what we did with Alpha Zero, the more general form of Alph Go. So Alph Go had
[00:28:43] some uh Go specific knowledge in it. But then with Alpha Zero, we we got rid of that including the human data human games that we learned from and actually just did self-learning from scratch. And of course then it was able to learn any game not just go. >> A lot of hype and hoopla has been made about the demand for energy arising from AI. Uh this is a big part of the AI summit we held in Washington DC a few
[00:29:06] weeks ago and it seems to be the number one topic everyone talks about in tech nowadays. Where's all this power going to come from? But I ask the question of you, are there changes in the architecture of the models or the hardware or the relationship between the models and the hardware that brings down the energy per token of output or the cost per token of output that ultimately maybe say mutes the energy demand curve
[00:29:29] that's in front of us or do you not think that that's the case and we're still going to have a pretty kind of geometric energy demand curve? Well, look, interestingly again, I think both cases are true in the sense that uh especially us at Google and at DeepMind, we we focus a lot on very efficient models uh that are powerful because we have our own internal use cases of course where we need to serve say AI overviews to billions of users uh every
[00:29:52] day and it has to be extremely efficient, extremely low latency and very cheap to serve and and so we've we've kind of pioneered many um techniques that allow us to do that like distillation where you sort of have a bigger model internally that trains the smaller model, right? So, you train the smaller model to mimic the bigger model. And over time, you look at the progress of the last 2 years, uh the model efficiencies are like 10x, you know,
[00:30:14] even 100x better for the same performance. Now, the the reason that that isn't reducing demand is because we're still not got to AGI yet. So, also the frontier models, you keep wanting to train and experiment with uh new ideas at larger and larger scale, whilst at the same time at the serving side, uh things are getting more and more efficient. So both things are true and I and in in the end I think that from the
[00:30:38] energy perspective um I think AI systems will give back a lot more to energy uh uh and climate change and these kind of things than they take in terms of efficiency of of of grid systems and electrical systems material design new types of properties new energy sources. I think AI uh will help with all of that over the next 10 years that will far outweigh um the energy that it uses today. As the last question, describe
[00:31:03] the world 10 years from now. >> Wow. Okay. Well, I mean, you know, 10 years uh even even 10 weeks is is a lifetime in AI. So, um field of 10 years, >> right? But I do feel like if we will have AGI in the next 10 years, you know, full AGI and um I think that will usher in a new golden era of science. So, a kind of new renaissance. Um, and I think we'll see the benefits of that right across from from energy to to human
[00:31:31] health. >> Amazing. Please join me in thanking Nobel laurate Dennis. Thank you. That was great. Thank you. [Applause]