[00:13:57] point uh do you have the right level of hardware to go for the scaling uh option because effectively when you start building factories around trying to make tens of thousands hundreds of thousands of particular robot type um you know it's harder for you to update quickly iterate the the robot design. So, it's one of those kind of questions where if you call it too early, uh, then then then the next generation of robot might
[00:14:20] be invented in 6 months time that's just more reliable and better and more dextrous. >> Sounds like using a computing analogy, we're kind of in the 70s era PC DOSs kind of uh, >> yeah, potentially. But of course, I think the the the the maybe that's where we are, but I think the except that 10 years happens in one year probably. So, right one of those years, right? Exactly. Yeah. Um so let's talk about other applications um particularly in in
[00:14:46] science. Uh true to your heart as as as a >> as a scientist as the Nobel Prize winning scientist um I always felt like the greatest thing things that we would be able to do with AI would be the problems that are intractable to humans with our current technology and capabilities and our brains and whatnot and we can unlock all of this potential. what are the areas of science and breakthroughs in science that you're
[00:15:12] most excited about and what kinds of models do we use to get there? Yeah, I mean a AI to accelerate scientific discovery and and help with things like human health is the reason I spent my whole career on AI and I think um it's the most important thing we can do with AI and I feel like if we build AGI in the right way it will be the ultimate tool for science and I think we've been showing at Deep Mind a lot of the way of
[00:15:35] that obviously Alphafold uh most famously but actually we've we've um applied uh our AI systems to many branches of science whether it's material design um helping with controlling plasma and fusion reactors, predicting the weather, um solving, you know, mass olympiad uh uh uh math problems and um the same types of systems uh with some uh extra finetuning can basically uh solve a lot of these complex problems. So I think we're just
[00:16:03] scratching the surface of what AI will be able to do and there are some things that are missing. So uh AI today I would say doesn't have true creativity in the sense that it can't come up with a new conjecture yet or new hypothesis. It can maybe prove something uh that you give it uh but it's not able to come up with a sort of new idea or new theory itself. So I think that would be one of the tests actually for
[00:16:25] >> AGI. What is that creativity as a human? >> Yeah. >> What is creativity? >> I think it's this sort of intuitive leaps that we often celebrate with the best scientists in history and and and artists of course. Um and you know maybe it's done through analogy or analogical reasoning. There are many theories in psychology and neuroscience and as to how uh we as human scientists do it. But a good test for it would be something
[00:16:48] like um give one of these modern AI systems a knowledge cutoff of 1901 and see if it can come up with special relativity like Einstein did in 1905. Right? If it's able to do that then I think we're on to something really uh really important where perhaps we're nearing an AGI. Another example would be with our Alpha Go program that beat the world champion at Go. Um, not only did it win in, you know, back 10 years ago,
[00:17:14] it it invented new strategies that had never been seen before uh for the game of Go, this famously move 37 in game two that is now studied. But can an AI system come up with a game as elegant, as satisfying, as aesthetically beautiful as go, not just a new strategy? And the answer to those things at the moment is no. So that's one of the things I think that's missing uh from uh a true general system an AGI system is it should be able to do uh
[00:17:41] those kinds of things as well. >> Can you break down what's missing and maybe related to the point of view shared by Daario Sam others about AGI is a few years away. Do you not subscribe to that belief and maybe help us understand what is it >> in your understanding of structure in your understanding of the system architecture what what's lacking >> well so I think the fundamental aspect of this is um can we mimic these
[00:18:08] intuitive leaps rather than incremental uh advances that that the best human scientists seem to be able to do. I always say like what separates a great scientist from a good scientist is they're both technically very capable of course. Um but the great scientist is more creative and so maybe they'll spot some pattern from another subject area that can be uh uh can sort of have an analogy or some sort of pattern matching
[00:18:32] to the area they're trying to solve. And I think one day AI will be able to do this, but it doesn't have the reasoning uh capabilities and and some of the um uh uh thinking capabilities that um are going to be needed to to make that kind of breakthrough. Um I also think that we're lacking consistency. So you often hear some of our competitors talk about uh you know these modern systems that we have today are PhD intelligences. I
[00:18:57] think that's a nonsense. They're not they're not PhD intelligences. They have some capabilities that are PhD level. um but they're not in general uh capable and that's what exactly what general intelligence should be of of performing across the board at the PhD level. In fact, as we all know interacting with today's chat bots, if you pose the question in a certain way, they can make simple mistakes with even like high
[00:19:21] school maths um and and simple counting. So, uh that shouldn't be possible for a true AGI system. So I think that we are maybe you know I would say sort of five to 10 years away um from having an AGI system that's capable of doing those things. Um another thing that's missing is continual learning. This ability to like online teach the system something new um or or some or adjust its behavior in some way. And so a lot of these I
[00:19:48] think core capabilities are still missing and maybe scaling will get us there but I feel if I was to bet I think there are probably one or two missing breakthroughs that are still required um and will come over the next uh five five or so years. In the meantime some of the reports and the the scoring systems that are used seem to be demonstrating two things. One perhaps, and tell me if we're wrong on this, a convergence of
[00:20:12] performance of large language models, and number two perhaps is a slowing down or a flatlining of improvements in performance on each generation. Are those two statements generally true or not so much? >> No, I mean, we're not we're not seeing that internally and and um we're still seeing a huge rate of progress. Um but also uh we're sort of looking at things more broadly. You see with our Genie models and VO models and nano banana is
[00:20:37] insane. It's bananas. It's bananas. >> Has anyone here can Can I see who's used it? Has anyone used Nano Banana? >> It's incredible, right? I mean, I'm I'm a nerd who used to use Adobe Photoshop as a kid and Kai's power tools and I was telling you Bryce 3D. So, like the graphic systems and like recognizing what's going on there was just like mind-blowing. Well, I think that's the future of uh a lot of these creative
[00:21:00] tools is you're just going to sort of vibe with it or just talk to them and they'll be consistent enough where like with Nana Banana, what's amazing about it is it's an image generator. It's best in best, you know, it's state-of-the-art and bestin-class, but it's one of the things that makes it so great is it's consistency. It's able to un instruction follow what you want changed and keep everything else the same. And so you can
[00:21:21] iterate with it uh and eventually get the kind of output that you want. And that's um I think what the future of a lot of these creative tools is going to be um and and sort of signals the direction and people love it and and they love creating with it. >> So democratization of creativity I I think is really powerful. I remember having to buy books on Adobe Photoshop as a kid and then you'd read them to learn how to remove something from a
[00:21:45] from an image and how to fill it in and feather and all this stuff. Now anyone can do it with Nano Banana and just they can explain to the software what they want it to do and it just does it. >> Yeah. I think you're going to see two things which is that um uh this sort of democratization of these tools for everybody to just use and create with without having to learn, you know, incredibly complex UX's and UIs uh like
[00:22:07] like we had to do in the past. But on the other hand, I think we and we're also collaborating with filmmakers and top creators and artists. Um so they're helping us design what these new tools should be, what features would they want. people like the director Darren Aronowski who's a good friend of mine, an amazing director and and he's been making and his team making films using VO and some of our other tools and we're
[00:22:28] learning a lot by observing them and and collaborating them. And what we find is that it's it also superpowers and turbocharges the best professionals too cuz they're suddenly um the best creatives, the professional creatives, they're suddenly able to be 10x, 100x more productive. they can just try out all sorts of ideas they have in mind, you know, very low cost and then get to the beautiful thing that they wanted.
[00:22:49] So, I actually think it's sort of both things are true. We're we're democratizing it for everyday use, uh, for YouTube creators and so on. But on the other hand, at the high end, um, the people who are who understand these tools and it's and it's not everyone can get the same output out of these tools, there's a skill in that as well as um, the vision and the storytelling and the narrative style of uh, the top
[00:23:11] creatives. And I think it just allows them, they really enjoy using these tools. It allows them to iterate way faster. >> Do we get to a world where each individual describes what sort of content they're interested in? Play me music like Dave Matthews and it'll play some new track. Yes. >> Or I want to play a video game set, you know, in the movie Braveheart and I want to be in that movie. Yes. >> And I just have that experience. Do we
[00:23:35] end up there or do we still have a one to many creative process in society? how important culturally and I know this is a little bit philosophical but it's interesting to me which is >> are we still going to have storytelling where we have one story that we all share because someone made it >> or we each going to start to develop and pull on our own kind of virtual >> I I actually foresee a world and I think
[00:23:55] a lot about this having started in the games industry as a game designer and programmer is that uh in the '90s is that you know I think the future of enter this is what we're seeing is the beginning of the future of entertainment maybe some new genre or new art form and where there's a bit of co-creation. I still think that you'll have the top creative visionaries. Um they will be creating these compelling experiences
[00:24:16] and dynamic story lines and they'll be of higher quality even if they're using the same tools than the everyday person can do. But also and so millions of people will potentially dive into those worlds, but maybe they'll also be able to create co-create certain parts of those worlds and perhaps that you know the the the main creative uh person is almost an editor of that world. So that's the kind of things I'm foreseeing
[00:24:39] in the next few years and I'd actually like to explore ourselves with with with technologies like Genie. >> Right. Incredible. And how are you spending your time? Are you at is and maybe you can describe Isomorphic? >> Of course. >> What isomorphic is and are you spending a lot of your time there? >> I am. So, so I also run Isomorphic which is our spinout company uh to revolutionize drug discovery building on
[00:25:00] our alpha fold breakthrough in in protein folding and of course um pro knowing the structure of a protein is only one step in the drug discovery process. So isomorphic you can think of it as building many uh adjacent alpha folds to help with things like designing chemical compounds that don't have any side effects but bind to the right place on the protein. And um I think we could reduce down drug discovery from taking
[00:25:25] years, sometimes a decade to do down to maybe weeks or even days uh over the next 10 years. >> It's incredible. Do you think that's in clinic soon or is that still in the discovery phase? And >> we're building up the platform right now and it's uh we have great partnerships with Eli Liy. I think you had the CEO speaking earlier and and Novartis which are fantastic and our own internal drug programs and I think we'll be entering
[00:25:46] sort of pre-clinical phase sometime next year. So candidates get handed over to the pharma company and they then take them forward. >> That's right. And we're working on cancers and immunology and oncology and we're working with uh uh uh uh places like MD Anderson. >> How much of this requires and I just want to go back to your point about AGI as it relates to what you just said. models can be probabilistic or
[00:26:07] deterministic and tell me if I'm reducing this down too simplistically that the model takes an input and it outputs something very specific like it's got a logical algorithm and it outputs the same thing every time and it could be probabilistic where it can change things and make selections the probability is 80% I'll select this letter 90% I'll select this letter next etc um how much do we have to kind of develop deterministic models that sync
[00:26:31] up with for example the the the physics or the chemistry underlying the molecular interactions as you do your drug discovery modeling. How much are you building novel deterministic models that work with the models that are probabilistic trained on data? >> Yeah, it's a great question. Actually, we for the moment and I think probably for the next 5 years or so, we're building what maybe you could call hybrid models. So, alphafold itself is a
[00:26:55] hybrid model where you have the learning component, this probabilistic component you're talking about which is you know based on neuronet networks and transformers and things and that's learning from the data you give it uh you know any data you have available but also to in a lot of cases with biology and chemistry there isn't enough data to learn from. So you also have to build in some of the rules about chemistry and
[00:27:16] physics that you already know about. So for example with alpha fold um the angle of bonds between atoms. um so and make sure that the the alpha fold understood you couldn't have atoms overlapping with each other and things like that. Now in theory it could learn that but it would waste a lot of the learning capacity. So actually it's better to kind of have that as a as a yeah as a as a constraint in there. Now the trick is with all
[00:27:38] hybrid systems is and and Alpha Go was another hybrid system where a neural network learning about the game of Go and what's what kind of patterns are good and then we had Monte Carlo research on top which was doing the planning and so the trick is how do you marry up a learning system with a a more handcrafted system bespoke system and actually have them work well together. Uh and that's that's pretty tricky to
[00:28:00] do. >> Does that sort of architecture ultimately lead to the breakthroughs needed for AGI do you think? Are there deterministic components that need to be solved? >> I think ultimately you what you want to do is um when you figure out something where this one of these hybrid systems, what you want what you ultimately want to do is upstream it into the learning component. So it's always better if you can do endto-end learning and and and
[00:28:20] directly predict the thing that you're after from the data that you you you're given. So um so once you figured out something uh using one of these hybrid systems, you then try and go back and reverse engineer what you've done and see if you can incorporate that learning uh that that that that information into the learning system. And this is sort of what we did with Alpha Zero, the more general form of Alph Go. So Alph Go had
[00:28:43] some uh Go specific knowledge in it. But then with Alpha Zero, we we got rid of that including the human data human games that we learned from and actually just did self-learning from scratch. And of course then it was able to learn any game not just go. >> A lot of hype and hoopla has been made about the demand for energy arising from AI. Uh this is a big part of the AI summit we held in Washington DC a few
[00:29:06] weeks ago and it seems to be the number one topic everyone talks about in tech nowadays. Where's all this power going to come from? But I ask the question of you, are there changes in the architecture of the models or the hardware or the relationship between the models and the hardware that brings down the energy per token of output or the cost per token of output that ultimately maybe say mutes the energy demand curve