[00:44:00] from the others. And there are good reasons to believe that actually this is going to be a self-reinforcing monopoly or duopoly which is Darkash just published a blog that I thought was super interesting where he talked about the fact that look we we do have a compute shortage right there's scarcity around compute. Uh Anthropic is growing its revenues 10x year-over-year. What would that mean? I mean, it basically
[00:44:23] means that next year they would grow from 100 billion of ARR to a trillion, right? If there was enough compute to support that, there might not be enough compute, but that's going to put pressure on compute prices, right? And so, let's say that you're a new entrant in the market and you're trying to basically create a smaller, cheaper model. The price of compute is going up. It's going to be harder for you to get
[00:44:44] access to compute. And only the companies that have the most lucrative algorithms are going to be able to afford to compete for compute. In other words, there's going to be a bigger barrier to entry next year because where are you going to get compute unless your model is capable of generating this type of revenue? >> Yeah. This is where I'll take the other side of it. >> Yeah. >> People are running Kimmy on the last
[00:45:05] generation of hardware and they're that's plentiful. And I think, and I'll make this prediction here, that you're going to see some of the major customers of Anthropic and major customers of OpenAI, I'm talking about the eight and nine figure customers, people spending 50 million, 100 million a year. They're leaving. They're going to be leaving because they don't trust those companies to not steal the application layer and
[00:45:30] to compete with them. 11 Labs, Figma, Lovable, they're all going to leave. And they're all going to take Kimmy. They're going to fork it or whichever one DeepS seek. They're all I know for a fact they're all working on their own models currently. I know from my team my team has installed Kimmy. It is 90% cheaper. 80 90% cheaper already. Not sure where you're getting your data from, but go on open router. And what open router does
[00:45:53] is you pick Kimmy Sachs and then you get all the providers there. And then you pick which provider. Hold on, let me finish. You pick which provider you want based on uptime and and you pick them based on their data retention and other issues and you can dynamically pick the lowest one. And that's going to be a massive headwind against these companies. Massive. And I'm seeing it nine out of 10 startups I talked to in
[00:46:16] our portfolio at founder university when I was just in Japan last week running the next one. They're all working on open source. They're all embracing it and those big companies are embracing it. Go ahead Shamath. Over to you. Irrespective of whichever model you use, what I will tell you running 8090 when I see our engineers generating code is that AIdriven development tends to involve a lot of rework. The first
[00:46:38] version is pretty terrible. The second version is terrible, but it is faster and it's more automated. So, I can see where this token consumption comes from because it's not a measure twice, cut once kind of a dynamic. It's the opposite. You can cut cut as many times as you want. And so I think that what we have to realize is nobody is asking the question what is the need of that incremental token because I understand
[00:47:06] that it appears in the frontier labs as P&L but I do think that there's an important question which is eventually the people that are consuming it will want to do that as efficiently as possible so that they're not paying for all of these things because there is a ton of rework in all of this stuff and I would much rather find a model or find a way of working with these models where it's more of a measure twice cut once thing
[00:47:33] especially as the costs ratchet up. That's one thing I'll say that hasn't happened yet. So Sax, you're totally right about the dynamic today. I do think we have to keep in mind that there will be pressure from the owners of companies to figure this out because at a trillion dollars there's just a lot of money flowing to these folks and somebody will ask the question, well is it good spend? The second on the security side, which I don't think
[00:47:53] anybody is saying, so I'll just say this and it's a little contrarian. The reason why these models can find all these holes is that all of the software up until about a few years ago was entirely written by humans and the code was not that good. And I think it's fair to say that when models don't get exhausted, they can work through the TDM forever. It's actually quite expected in my opinion that they find all these
[00:48:19] exploits are able to string them together and are able to actually generate these outcomes that are a little bit surprising. But at some point when most of the code is generated by the model there'll be some point in the future say 28 or 29 or 2030 these security holes won't exist because the errors that humans make won't be made by these model. >> Yes. Okay. Let me get Freeberg involved here. When you look at this latest
[00:48:46] survey, hand ringing, cur pearl clutching, do you think these firms, and you know a lot of these people, Freeberg, having been in the valley forever, do you think this is sincerity or do you think they're Frankenstein maxing? What's going on here? >> Well, Frankenstein, >> I mean, they kind of think that they're like, listen, I created this monster. Please save me. And it's like, well, maybe you should keep the monster away.
[00:49:09] >> By the way, it's also that whole thing. Sorry. Last thing up to you, David, is it's a much more nuanced and elegant attempt at rag capture. I got to give them credit for that. >> Yeah. >> It's like, okay, hey guys, pull the ladder up. >> Yeah. Zuckerberg had a great point in that article he just wrote. I think it was published in the Wall Street Journal where he said, "Why are you rushing to create a future that you don't believe
[00:49:28] in? You think you're going to basically put everyone out at work? You think you're creating a replacement species for humanity? Why are you rushing to create this if you're so bearish on the future you're creating?" >> It's your choice. And that's kind of my point. 120 mph on the autobond. Just put it at 80. >> Right. Exactly. And look, the like I'm saying, there's two companies on the frontier right now that are far ahead of
[00:49:50] everyone else. And they're the ones saying that we need to slow down. It's like, okay, do it. What do you need the government to get involved for? Just do it. But they won't do it. >> And I show that they're insincere or delusional. What do you think, Freeberg? Take me into the mind of these people. These are some of your friends. >> No, they're not. So, just to be clear, I'm not close personal friends with any
[00:50:08] of these people. >> You know, we're acquaintances. I would say >> there's a degree of I would say outrageous self-importance. If I've created something that's so unique and so powerful, I'm also the only person that can protect us from its power. And I think that there's an element of how quickly the frontier has advanced and how important a role these individuals have had that they deem themselves and their companies to be the
[00:50:37] only true judges capable of making the decisions that are going to protect humanity from itself. When the truth is embedded in humanity is extraordinary human talent across the board. And in all of these cases, when new technology has found its way to humanity, the general population has found a way to protect itself. There isn't a desire or need to have one savior, one Moses that takes us, you know, across the desert.
[00:51:05] Uh there is a collective interest in protecting us uh in building our own defense tools against whatever the technology may be used for. So I I think that there's a degree of self-importance without acknowledging the fact that there's a whole industry of people that work in cyber defense. There's a whole industry of people that work in biodefense. There's a whole cabal of regulators. There's a whole cabal of
[00:51:27] protectors. There's a whole cabal of intelligent computer scientists. There's a whole cabal of open-source uh technologists that all together are going to develop paths that are going to benefit humanity and not harm humanity. But this belief that only one of two companies can be Moses is the fundamental psychological miscalculation here. That they're so advanced, they are so special, they are so unique because
[00:51:51] they made the slightly better model. They got a 0.96 instead of a 0.93 score means that they should be trusted as the only ones to kind of guide humanity's evolution going forward. And the truth is as we're seeing the capacity to do model training, the capacity to do model development is becoming broader. It's becoming more ubiquitous. People can sit and say that China stole US models all day long. But when you go look at the
[00:52:17] individuals working at these Chinese labs, they got PhDs at American institutions. Half the PhDs went to American labs and half went to Chinese labs. And they have very good scientists doing very good work and they are having breakthroughs. And it's not just the two American companies, but this is happening all over the place. And so the progress with AI should not be limited to just two individual companies because
[00:52:38] they're currently scoring slightly better in their models. >> This reminds me of Freeberg. You'll appreciate the uh moment. Remember when uh Han Solo comes out of Carbonite and he's about to get put in the Sarlac pit and he's like a Jedi Knight? I'm out of it for a bit and now everybody gets delusions of grandeur and thinks they're a Jedi Knight. It's like >> these guys just think they're like, >> you know, creating God. They literally
[00:53:00] think they're creating God and and they need to be regulated cuz they can't control it. It's like they can't control it. Just pause. >> It's not that they need It's not that they need to be regulated. It's that they need to guide the regulation. Let's be clear. >> It's so sinister. It's >> And anyone who says I Yeah, I I by the way, I don't think that it is as nefarious or malicious as everyone frames it to be knowing these
[00:53:22] individuals. I don't think they're saying like the strategy is regulatory capture. Let me go. I think that they actually do think that they are the only ones that can help guide humanity and therefore they need to have all the power, not just the power of the models, but the power of the government and the power of the regulators and the power of the control units that are embedded in governments around the world. It's not
[00:53:40] just that um that they want to quote be regulated, they want to guide the regulation. They want to set the regulation. I know it's a nuance point, but I I I think we have we I think we've navigated this pretty well and there's multiple motivations as Sax was saying and people are complex but Chimath I was talking to >> a friend of ours um who you know is in the uh providing inference space let's leave it at that you know providing
[00:54:06] >> our friend a friend a friend friend of ours as we say in the you know the uh sopranos a friend of ours he said he has got a customer who just moved move like nine figures off of the Frontier Labs to put it on GLM52. So that's the ZXI one. That's really good. So this is happening. I I don't know when it shows up in the numbers or if the you know corporates that are using this stuff um are going to make up the difference but
[00:54:32] >> well look I think that Sax is right that the usage is so profound that everybody is trying to get access to these things because the capabilities are just so inspiring and so I suspect revenues are going to crank at OpenAI and anthropic and the open labs for a while but again that's not the important thing. If you're thinking about valuation, the markets will look 5 to 10 years out to answer that question. They're not
[00:55:04] going to give you a premium valuation on something that they feel could be fragile in the first 2 to 3 years. And that's where Jason, the answer to your question needs to get figured out because I don't know whether you're right or not, but somebody has to answer that question precisely because if the answer is that it is a duopoly, then there is no risk to the revenue 5 to 10 years from now. These things are 5 to10
[00:55:29] trillion dollar companies each. But if you are right or if there are harnesses that cut the token consumption because you stop wasting tokens to get to the same output then it's a little bit more of a question mark and I think that'll need to get sorted out. >> Yeah, Perplexity is going to launch next week. From what I understand the rumor is they're going to launch local models. So you'll be able to take your harness
[00:55:53] sacks and say hey you know I I want to use Sonnet for this. I want to use GLM52 for this and then I want to default to Kimmy 2.x. I don't think enterprises will use local models or they should. [clears throat] I think it's stupid. I think >> I I think this stuff should be hosted in the cloud. It should be multiplayer. It should be shared memory. I don't know if you guys saw that, but Jack Dorsey released something called Buzz.
[00:56:15] >> Super interesting. >> Agents. Yeah, >> he's moving in the right direction. A lot of these guys are moving towards this more cloud-based thing. Jason, I think that these this local thing is more of a hacker hobby is kind of a thing. I think it will I agree today it will be that and for year one it will probably be that but imagine you're a developer and as you're working your workstation is able to keep up and even
[00:56:37] go faster than the cloud a and just write whatever the simple code is and then it dynamically switches so we'll see it's you know I obviously it's not as uh easy to set up etc but it's going to get easier that's always the trend sax you want to have the last word here we we got a lot of opinions here and maybe we'll give you the last >> yeah I mean look just to be clear I'm a fan of open source ource because open
[00:56:58] source is software freedom and to Freeberg's point I would like there to be a let's call it decentralized outcome with respect to AI I don't like the idea of AI being controlled by two big tech companies that work closely with the administrative state you know handinand glove so look we're all kind of in some sense rooting for open source to be an option and it does provide a bunch of advantages over closed source right you
[00:57:23] get customization you get control you can run on your own hardware you don't have to worry about the data problem. You know, your alpha getting leaked to these companies that might compete with you. All those types of things. And the market is so big that I'm sure we will see some success with open source. It will take a meaningful chunk of the market. But if you're looking at where the revenue is right now, it's these two
[00:57:46] companies. It might end up being a situation like Apple and Android where Android got a lot of market share, but Apple's where all the monetization was. >> Yeah. And I think that Dwarcash raises a really good point that as the demand is 10xing year-over-year, but the compute can only be built out at say 3x year-over-year because it just all the friction of all the things in the real world that get in the way,
[00:58:13] permitting, regulation, bans on new data centers, all that kind of stuff. I think that the price of compute is going to go up and that will provide an advantage to the models that have the most lucrative algorithms that are able to produce the most intelligence per watt or the most intelligence per token or per GPU. And right now that that is those two companies and in a way you could say they have a self reinforcing loop
[00:58:38] because if you have all the revenue and right now like I said it's just two companies have all the revenue you can then plow that money back into the next training run. Right? So that's the the flywheel here. >> Yeah. >> And look, I think that it's great that open source is providing an alternative. We shouldn't do anything to get in the way of that. I think that, you know, these online debates tend to become a
[00:58:59] little bit histrionic in the sense that everyone has to religious. >> Well, they they become religious and they have to argue for an all or nothing perspective. I think open source will do great in its way, but so will these two close source companies. >> Here's your poly market. 19% chance the US enacts an AI safety bill this year. 100k of volume. And then really interesting one, uh, Chimath here, OpenAI IPO chances for 2026
[00:59:24] was at 75% last month, has now dropped to 20%, an all-time low. So, seems like the IPO is going to happen next year. Not sure what's driving that, but uh, there's your poly markets. Well, just on the AI safety bill idea, I mean, there was an article in Punch Bowl this morning that Thun, you know, who's the Senate Majority Leader, John Thun actually introduced a bill that was somewhat bipartisan. He had Clolobashar
[00:59:51] on board that required the Frontier Labs to report safety incidents apparently to the Commerce Department. And >> is that reasonable, Sax? >> I mean, that's the direction all this stuff is headed. I I mean, look, I think it's the camel's nose under the tent for more and more AI regulation, but look, I think it had bipartisan support because it's on the relatively modest side and Canwell, who's the ranking member on the