[00:00:00] Over the last year to date, up 14%. Over the last year, NASDAQ shares up 40%. Over the 5-year period, more than doubled, up over 100%. You've been on a real tear. >> She is often on the list of not just the most influential women in finance, but just the most influential. Adena transformed NASDAQ into a global tech powerhouse. Adena is a dealmaker at her core. NASDAQ is in the business of deals. >> We are here to advance economic progress
[00:00:27] for all. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome NASDAQ CEO Adena Freriedman. [Music] >> Welcome. >> Hey Jason, how are you? >> Thanks for coming. How are you? >> Hi. It's great to see you. Hey, >> great. It's great to be here. >> Welcome. Thanks for coming out. >> What a day you've been having. >> Yeah. So, you caught some of the action earlier today, right? >> I did. I did. I've been watching from behind the scenes. It's been amazing to
[00:00:57] watch. You've been hanging backstage. Did you have a favorite moment or speaker? >> Oh, I I I never like to pick favorites at NASDAQ. We don't pick favorites. Um uh we have great companies, but obviously Rene is a wonderful NASDAQ listed company that and I've gotten to know it very well with ARM. So, I would say always have great conversations. >> But you know, sorry, but NASDAQ's more than a market. I think I wanted to start
[00:01:19] with this real important question because when when we were talking, I didn't realize that NASDAQ was more than just the NASDAQ market that we all know. Maybe just for the for the audience you could just share a little bit more about the broader business. >> Sure. Thank you. Well, so first of all, we are really proud of our foundation as a market. But as we started to grow and expand the business, first of all, you
[00:01:38] know, when I became CEO, we had about two and a half million billion dollars in revenue. Today or as of the end of last year, we had a little over $2.5 billion dollars of IBIDA. So, we've grown and expanded the business quite dramatically. And how we've done that is taking our core as a market and saying, what more can we do for our clients? So we are an architect of modern markets. We provide our technology to our 17
[00:01:58] markets and we sell it to 135 other markets around the world. So market infrastructure is our business and we do that globally. Then the second is really being powering that innovation economy like companies like Renee you know ARM and other great companies. So uh we've expanded that. So, our index business now has about $700 billion of assets under management that are tied to those great innovators in addition to creating
[00:02:22] better abilities for companies to navigate the public markets and investors to find cu find investments. >> And you had a big announcement today. And then the third is is also building trust in across the financial system. And that is anti-inancial crime technology, market surveillance technology, other technologies that the banking industry and the and the broker dealer industry really need to manage their lives in the markets. And you're
[00:02:44] right, we had a big invest we had a big um a big announcement today >> which almost Vlad foreshadowed before you actually. >> Yeah. And and actually it goes right back to that first pillar being, you know, being the architect of modern life. >> Tell people what >> You think we should? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So uh so this morning we announced that um we're going to be bringing tokenization into our markets. So making
[00:03:05] sure that equities are tokenized and traded on market in the markets not in a side a side sleeve but actually in the the core markets. >> So the eventual goal or is it today 24x7 365 equities just let it rip constantly. >> I mean I think we are all moving in that direction. We announced several months ago that we're moving to 245. So we're moving that way. So Saturday and Sunday not >> not not for equities yet. I think that
[00:03:30] you know we have to we're walking before we run u but I think that getting to 245 is a major advancement for the US equities markets. And then on top of that now with tokenization if we can introduce that also into the markets it allows us to really think about streamlining the post trade processing bringing and modernizing elements of the markets that have a lot of friction. You know we we are hyper resilient and we're
[00:03:54] hyperscaled. You know, we manage like today we had 95 billion messages come into our systems today and we had a median, you know, return time of 20 micros on from order to trade. We handle like 3 million messages a second. It's hugely scaled. But then at the same time, you know, once that trade occurs, there's a different process. And the post trade process as we know is an area where tokenization really shines and
[00:04:17] really cutting down the friction managing capital flows across the global ecosystem and really bringing that capability into the market is going to be the next. >> Get your reaction to this. You know there's this very famous curve which is like you get this early font of insanity and then there's the trough of disillusionment and then you grow through and it's is it does it seem like crypto is actually a blockchain? It's
[00:04:40] just it's finally real. It's like there's real companies doing real things, stable coins, what Sachs did with the Genius Act. It's >> Well, I I actually want to point to that because, you know, honestly, having regulators who want to to work on bringing it into the mainstream and want to create the rules of the road is such a refreshing thing because I think that it allows us all to understand how we can operate within a world where there
[00:05:05] are tenants of investor protection. the technology is going to have things we can and can't do, but also being forward thinking and forward-leaning in how the technology is going to be applied is going to be critical. So, we're very excited about the fact that we finally have this convergence of regulatory of regulation between the traditional markets, the digital markets. How do we bring it all together to frankly advance
[00:05:26] all markets and we're very very excited about that. And and I don't mean this to be glib or anything, but wasn't there like a concept around the markets having an end of the day at 4:00, allowing people to have a life and to sleep and to not have this anxiety? Are we all going to live in a world where we have to check our stocks at 2 in the morning or some crazy event happens in the world, god forbid, a terrorist attack or a hack or
[00:05:51] something, and now we've all got to wake up at 3:00 in the morning and decide, do we trade or not? Was that the resistance to this? And then how do you justify it? Like, hey, it's going to be worth the fact that none of us are ever going to sleep again. >> Yeah. So, so I think first of all, I've been at I started at NASDAQ in 1993, and back in the '9s, we had a vision to go to 247 markets, and we just couldn't
[00:06:14] achieve it both technologically, it wasn't the technology wasn't there to do it, but also regulatory. And and part of a big part of that was that resistance from the industry saying, I like to be able to finish my day and go home. And actually we need those points in the day. I mean the market open and the market close will continue to exist in a world of 245 markets. But you'll have like a US trading day and you'll have
[00:06:36] non- US trading day. And so and we already our systems turn on at 4 and they turn off at 8:00 at night. 4 in the morning 8:00. Trading occurs during that entire period of time. But the official trading days of the United States are 9:34. I don't anticipate that changing because we have to have those moments for like the navs to be set for mutual funds and things like that but have allowing the entire world to trade these
[00:07:00] securities. I mean we have the NASDAQ itself we have the top seven companies in the world listed on NASDAQ. Those companies are global investors have global interests. The NASDAQ 100's one of the most traded products in the world. The futures trade 245. So why shouldn't the underlying? So that's how we look at those non- US trading hours and then the trading hours and trying to find that confluence and wait a little
[00:07:22] bit. >> There's a lot of um hand ringing about the number of companies that have gone public. The weight of being a public company, the stay private longer moment. Took Uber 11 long years. Stripe is private now close to 15 years. SpaceX. So and and we have some folks who maybe think things should run differently. We had Spotify go uh public in a direct listing. You have Chimath experimenting with spaxs. What should the IPO market
[00:07:49] look like? And how can we make it now that we have a government that's maybe a little more engaged, let's say, and less napping as administration? How should the IPO market change and that process change to encourage people to maybe not stay private so long? Because all the gains are being captured by the elites, by the qualified purchasers, the accredited investors can barely get in and let alone the public. By the time
[00:08:16] the public gets in, it does feel like, oh, I'm getting into Instacart and it's going to go sideways for a year or two or three. >> Yeah. So I mean first of all I think it's really good to remind all of our you know all of us why the public markets are so important for the economy. Um when a company goes public they get access to billions of investors and every citizen in this country gets a chance to become an owner in the
[00:08:41] economy. And when we look at just the performance of the NASDAQ 100 over 40 years of its existence the average return on the NASDAQ 100 over those 40 years is a 14.25% annual return. So that's double the broader market. >> It's an incredible return >> if if if com you know if individuals have access to these great companies as you know I saw your your pod a few weeks ago showing the performance of the public markets. It's it's such an
[00:09:05] important part of our economy to engage the population in the economy and the growth of the economy and the success of the economy. So I've always believed in the balance between public and private markets. I think there are reasons for them both to thrive and be great great for everyone. But the public market experience has become this massive you know burden and I think that we call it like you have to cross the Rubicon to
[00:09:29] become public and it's become very daunting for com for CEOs and companies to to take that decision. So we have talked very closely with the SEC and others about what can we do to lighten the load to make it so that it's not such a huge change. We've t we've advocated for changes in disclosure reforms, proxy reform, litigation reform, all of those things. There's such a different existence. It shouldn't be so different.
[00:09:55] >> Does the burden actually improve the quality of the companies that are public? Does it improve the fraud rates? Does it >> It's a good question. And I actually do think that you will find that there is really good valid reasons for certain disclosures. I think disclosure is a cleansing, you know, as a as a cleansing event. Um but and so having the respon but there's so they have to disclose so much more than that's actually necessary
[00:10:17] for an investor to make a smart investment decision. >> Let's strip that away and get back to the core disclosures and then offering different ways to actually enter the public markets. We think the direct listing and we've actually worked closely with Bill and others on a direct listing with a capital raise like why not have that? We have that ability today. Um and so and then spaxs are another another avenue to public
[00:10:37] markets. ICOs over time. We'd like to kind of bring that as a that to me is frankly a direct listing, a tokenized direct listing. So, how do we bring all those capabilities into the markets and make them available and make these companies feel like it's exciting? >> That requires the SC hold just sort of one followup if I may. That requires the SEC to take a a little bit more risk and they seem like an organization that is
[00:11:01] incredibly riskoff and you know very conservative in their approach. Did they need to change their approach to be a little bit more forwardinking in your mind? >> Well, I first of all, I would say that um Chair Atkins is my first meeting with him was just amazing. He's great. Um you know, he is forward-leaning. He wants to create change. He wants to make IPOs great again. >> He wants to to really support the public
[00:11:25] markets while also, frankly, looking at elements of the market structure in the established markets and saying, does this all need to exist? Because there's a lot of there's a lot of that, too. And then also really embracing the crypto ecosystem to say what elements of this could be brought in that regulatory convergence is real. >> You know, how can we create a a regulatory road for crypto markets? How can we actually create a regulatory road
[00:11:49] for tokenized securities markets? How do those things kind of converge? Can I can I ask you he's a he's a great I mean I would say he's off to a great start. outside of the equity markets, the biggest liquid pools that are trading right now, whether it's the actual tokens or pers or what have you or the crypto markets themselves, it would seem relatively logical that um you guys or others would want to play in that game.
[00:12:12] And um why don't you? >> Yeah, I mean yeah, I think what's held us back is the lack of regulatory clarity. I I say that NASDAQ is really good at operating regulated markets and so you ask us to go into a completely unregulated space that's a pretty different existence. The risk tolerance is much higher. Um we want to make I mean we are always investor protection first always. So how do we make sure that we create the right structure with
[00:12:40] fairness and equality for for investors while also being really big innovators? You know we've moved our markets to cloud. We've kind of really brought forth a lot of modern technology into markets, but we also operate best when we have the rules of the road. What's happening now in Washington is the potential for rules of the road. And that gives us an opportunity to participate in a market that has not been available to us.
[00:13:00] >> And is that something that if the federal government just creates that clarity, you know, you could compete with Coinbase, you can compete with Binance, you can compete with OKX, you can compete with the decentralized. I I would say that what we would want to do is really work with our institutional clients because they also have not been able or willing to play in the markets. Their risk tolerance is we have a
[00:13:18] similar profile. >> So if we can actually bring the institutional ecosystem into crypto assets, we bring tokenization into securities assets. That's a really interesting way for us to play a role in in really helping evolve these markets and and bring them to the mainstream. And whether you know I many flowers will bloom in that in that ecosystem. you you today all of your markets are equities. These are securities that have secured
[00:13:42] interest in in an underlying business asset. There's a business that's buying and selling stuff and has employees and does stuff. >> But much of what we see the volume today in prediction markets, in crypto markets, there aren't underlyings. These are there's there's a there's a point of view on some value of, for example, in the prediction markets an event. And historically, you'd have to figure out a way to play that event with some equity
[00:14:09] trade. Does that do the prediction markets actually kind of create a new way to express investment pieces that are kind of going to perhaps be a superset of the way we trade equities or are these just fundamentally different that owning an interest in a business is different than having a point of view on a thesis? >> I mean, I have to say the options markets are as much a prediction market as uh as the other prediction markets.
[00:14:33] So we own and operate the largest options marketplace in the United States. Um and so we are really you know we're very engaged in looking at how do you think about you you are making a decision as to the direction of travel in an in an underlying equity but you're not actually trading in the underlying equity. So options are I think a great reflection of a prediction market. The difference though is that in a
[00:14:57] prediction market it's a binary yes no versus an option market you're laying you're layering in your bets across multiple price points and different durations. There's by the way a million and a half strikes in the in the options markets today. But so it's I think that in in some ways the prediction markets make these types of um these types of bets you know more accessible to more people because the options markets are
[00:15:22] quite complex. prediction markets are a little bit more simple. So there is an opportunity and I I think it's also good that the SEC and the CFTC by are joining forces to think about these markets much more comprehensively because if we can bring that regatory paradigm across the markets and make more more of these kind of asset classes more accessible. I think that's good for everyone. >> Maybe you could talk about private uh