[00:13:18] similar profile. >> So if we can actually bring the institutional ecosystem into crypto assets, we bring tokenization into securities assets. That's a really interesting way for us to play a role in in really helping evolve these markets and and bring them to the mainstream. And whether you know I many flowers will bloom in that in that ecosystem. you you today all of your markets are equities. These are securities that have secured
[00:13:42] interest in in an underlying business asset. There's a business that's buying and selling stuff and has employees and does stuff. >> But much of what we see the volume today in prediction markets, in crypto markets, there aren't underlyings. These are there's there's a there's a point of view on some value of, for example, in the prediction markets an event. And historically, you'd have to figure out a way to play that event with some equity
[00:14:09] trade. Does that do the prediction markets actually kind of create a new way to express investment pieces that are kind of going to perhaps be a superset of the way we trade equities or are these just fundamentally different that owning an interest in a business is different than having a point of view on a thesis? >> I mean, I have to say the options markets are as much a prediction market as uh as the other prediction markets.
[00:14:33] So we own and operate the largest options marketplace in the United States. Um and so we are really you know we're very engaged in looking at how do you think about you you are making a decision as to the direction of travel in an in an underlying equity but you're not actually trading in the underlying equity. So options are I think a great reflection of a prediction market. The difference though is that in a
[00:14:57] prediction market it's a binary yes no versus an option market you're laying you're layering in your bets across multiple price points and different durations. There's by the way a million and a half strikes in the in the options markets today. But so it's I think that in in some ways the prediction markets make these types of um these types of bets you know more accessible to more people because the options markets are
[00:15:22] quite complex. prediction markets are a little bit more simple. So there is an opportunity and I I think it's also good that the SEC and the CFTC by are joining forces to think about these markets much more comprehensively because if we can bring that regatory paradigm across the markets and make more more of these kind of asset classes more accessible. I think that's good for everyone. >> Maybe you could talk about private uh
[00:15:45] markets and the secondary sales that are occurring. There's an SPV boom. We heard um uh Vlad talk earlier today about tokenizing open AI and SpaceX and I know when Masayoshi wanted to buy a bunch of um Uber when it was a private company, they did that through NASDAQ uh and I guess second market. >> NAS Yeah, NASDAQ private market. >> NASDAQ private markets which came through the acquisition for Second Market. That's right. If I remember my
[00:16:14] history correct, >> that's pretty good. Um, so how do you think about those opportunities and aggressively going after them? Right now I I I take it you are invited into those and people hire you to do that. But what about making markets for an open AI share or SpaceX shares or stripe shares. >> So I think the first thing we focus on in NASA private market is being issuer first in how we work with work with these private companies. So you know
[00:16:42] they are private companies and they're private for a reason. They want to have control over their shareholder base. Uh and yet they want to create liquidity for their employees, their early investors, etc. And there is a second market that is created on the back of these private shares. So how do we work with them to allow that to happen in a fair way to make it so that we can introduce them to other other investors
[00:17:02] that they want to have in their cap table? SPVS are a way to do that. You can roll up a lot of wealth interests in a company and create an SPV through a known institution. And so the institution becomes the owner. Remember the the you know the wealth clients are not actual owners of the shares. They're owners of the SPV that are owners of the shares. But letting the issuer have the the ultimate decision on whether or not
[00:17:24] they invite those issu those investors in I think is actually really important in the private context, you know, and that's that's kind of part of I I believe is what makes NASA private market different than other providers in the private space is we always partner with the issuer >> because they're going rogue basically. They're going around the backs of the CFO and CEO of those companies at times and it does piss them off.
[00:17:47] >> Yeah. I I think it's important always to realize that um you know the the issuers the companies especially private companies are being very mindful of who they have as owners. Let's let them continue to do that as private companies. Once you enter the public market then you've got public investors and that's a different it is a different responsibility >> and there is different risk that that's involved in opening the aperture to
[00:18:07] billions of people but I think um and there should be disclosures also provided as a result of that. So in this in that private marketplace, let's make sure that we we keep some controls in place around that. >> The um the stock market has mostly flipped from individual stock pickers to just an absolute abundance of index funds. >> Um it kind of compresses returns in some way. It's hard to find like a lot of alpha in the market. Um you have an
[00:18:36] enormous concentration with the top seven, eight or nine companies as a percentage of the overall market. um when you see these kinds of structural things, what does it tell you about the moment of the cycle because you you've seen it now for 30 years. >> Yeah. Yeah, I have. Um well, first of all, I I think that the rise of index investing is making investing more accessible in general. It's a very very inexpensive, very accessible and very
[00:19:01] liquid way to have a view into a sector or a return profile or a theme and not have to pick stocks. And you know, as as as retail investors, it's hard to sit there and be a stock picker. It takes a lot of time. I tried to I worked with my son when he was a teenager. He really wanted to do it. So I had to teach him how to read an S1 or a 10K. It's you spend some time on it. But but indexes give makes I think investing much more
[00:19:25] accessible. However, I also agree with you that you also have to balance it with active management. You have to have active investors. I mean, at the end of the day, I always say that there's a balance between the passive and and active world within the markets. And whenever it skews towards the passive, what happens is that that creates um arbitrage opportunities for the active. If the herd really kind of starts to
[00:19:46] move the socks in a certain direction, the active manager should step in and take advantage of that arbitrage. But the the real foundation of it though, Chimath, is this that the you know the NASDAQ 100 or these innovative companies h are they are performing the way they're performing for a reason and it becomes very difficult to beat >> the index because these companies are very hard. It's hard to find companies
[00:20:07] that deliver a better return than they do. Um, and I think that's where active management has has uh struggled just because they are trying to beat a benchmark, but that benchmark is so such an attractive benchmark. >> Let me ask a question unrelated to NASDAQ. Um, your role on the board of the New York Fed from where you sit and and and your role in capital markets, do you think that there is a trend of ddollarization
[00:20:33] underway? Um there's a report that just came out on central bank holdings that have shown dollar denominated I think it was treasuries declining from 60 to 40% gold going from 10 to 20% over just the last decade with some acceleration perhaps underway obviously China selling down treasuries what's your view on where we are um with respect to spending with respect to central bank interest in in in dollar denominated assets and what
[00:21:00] that implies for our markets >> yeah I mean I think First of all, I am a huge believer in dollar as a reserve currency and the fact we will be persistent as a reserve currency over a long period of time. I think our economy is just is such a powerhouse. Um I think that the rule of law and the stability that we have and that we deliver to the world is going to continue to provide that anchor for for the dollar to be the
[00:21:25] reserve currency. But you know uh investors will express themselves if they see certain risks starting to manifest. I do think as we've you guys talk about a lot you know the amount of debt that we have in the country is something that is we're starting to see manifest itself in the markets and we'll make it so that they look for alternatives if they feel like the return characteristics of a of a treasury are different than what they
[00:21:45] could get in another the risk weighted returns versus other currencies or other treasuries that they're going to express themselves. I I believe in the US I feel like I believe in the power of the US economy to work its way through this. I believe that you guys talking about it a lot is actually going to help us make ourselves work our way through it. >> Does the Fed >> uh and the Fed I think the Fed is a staunch believer in the reserve
[00:22:07] currency? I don't think that they have any, you know, at least my experience with them is that they don't have any significant concerns that have arisen from what you talked about. >> Do you think that there's a data issue at the Fed? You know, I've talked about this before. I just I worry that, you know, sort of bad inputs, bad decisions, and they don't necessarily benefit from the best of what's available. And quite
[00:22:25] frankly, the best of what's available is, you know, held close by certain companies and not really shared broadly because that they think is their edge. So I'm just curious how enabled the Fed is to actually see the tea leaves and actually see what's actually happening on the field. >> I I can only say I mean I I can just speak from my own experience. The the Fed is very data driven. They get sources of data, private sources of
[00:22:49] data, public sources of data. They'll get private databases of information that they're not going to disclose or they're not going to share with others as an input. But there are many many inputs that they take into consideration. And they share every 10 days we go through and understand a market update and economic update to help us understand and frame what's happening in the economy. And they use that data. They're they're quite wedded
[00:23:12] to understanding the data. But they'll take in new sources. if new sources become available or they find something that could be useful, they will absolutely take that into consideration, but it won't supplant everything else that they're looking at. >> Do you have concerns about the Fed remaining independent? We've seen a bit of pressure uh from this administration. We've seen it from other administrations in the past, but what are your thoughts
[00:23:33] broadly on the Fed and independence and the importance of that and their mandate? >> Yeah, I mean, I know there's a a debate, you know, even in healthy debate, a health debate, I would say on that point. I do have a point of view. I do think that the Fed we've benefited for almost 250 years on having Fed independence. Uh I think that it's important to to have allow the Fed to think long term and that's why the term
[00:23:55] of the Fed chair is six years like to think longer term than through individual political cycles and to be data dependent. And I agree Tomoth like there should be new sources of data that are made available to allow the Fed to continue to make those smart decisions. But and I think in terms of the decision-m within the Fed um that independence allows them to to look through a lot of different noise in the economy and to think longer term. Are
[00:24:21] they going to make perfect decisions every time? No. >> Are they 2020 hindsight we could all look back and say oh we would have done it differently. >> Are they a political politically driven organization in your experience? >> Yeah. My pers my perspective and my experience is that it is a very datadriven very apolitical. I mean the New York Fed has been very very focused on just looking at the economy looking
[00:24:42] at the market. >> They take pride in that. I take it >> a huge amount of pride in that and they have you know there's definitely I mean we've they've gone through some very different political cycles. I I've been there for almost six years. Uh and and yet it's been a very steady process of evaluating the monetary policy. Very steady. while they also do a lot to operate the economy. It's pretty cool. >> Yeah. Do you think that um we need to
[00:25:08] think more about the underlying leverage that the Fed enables in market participants and specifically you know I've said this I I worry that we financialize so much of the the economy that you know hedge funds they can take on so much leverage that even if you have you know 60 70 billion you're running a trillion long and you know a trillion is not what it used to be but it's still a lot of money where you can
[00:25:34] really screw up the infrastructure of America if you blow up or if you know things go wrong. And there just doesn't seem to be this robust check and balance anymore yet again. I mean, we had it for a few years coming out of the GFC because we everybody was so burned by it. But I think that all these risk measures, if you look at them, many of them say, you know, a lot of these folks um are running very levered. Um, so I
[00:25:59] don't know if you see that from your vantage point if you have >> I mean certainly NASDAQ as the CEO of NASDAQ we do see it in not so much in our specific ecosystem although there are you know highly levered let's say ETFs and other things like that. Um certainly outside the regulated markets in the crypto space there's a lot of leverage there too in the derivatives markets there is but so but at the same time I think there are a lot of checks
[00:26:22] and balances within the securities ecosystem that um that forces us to go back towards a mean and there is an oversight that the SEC has on what levered products are at least brought into the public markets. Uh in terms of the Fed and looking at leverage I think that the way that they focus it is what really truly creates systemic risk. Um and the GFC too big to fail kind of. >> Yeah. The GFC really introduced the fact
[00:26:44] that the there are certain banks that introduce systemic risk by capitalizing the banks the way they have. They feel like have addressed a lot of that. And yes, some of that activity moves off outside the banking system that they don't necessarily have complete control over. But their view is that it's distributed enough that it doesn't necessarily create um systemic risk or having a too big to fail hedge fund for
[00:27:04] instance, right? Um but that's that's that's how they kind of manage that that risk. I you know leverage is a part of the system but we also I think there's a responsibility we all have to think about how much >> where do you see the biggest risk in the market today? All markets. So there's there's a lot of talk about climbing defaults in commercial real estate and the catalyzing effect that may result from delinquency rates starting to
[00:27:27] climb. We're private >> credit I've heard about those now for several years. Um, and I also would say that the banks, you know, to the extent they have a lot of real estate in their portfolio, they've been working through that. I do think that as we start to be in an environment where we can start to see rates come down, I think that there'll be a lot of pressure that's eased off of some of those those concerns. Uh, and you know, people are
[00:27:51] also coming back to work. Like, you know, commercial real estate's going through a cycle, but it's not it's it's going to go through a different cycle. So, but I do think that a lot of banks have been working through those issues and have been managing actually quite well. We have over 5,000 banks in this country. So, it's also again it's pretty distributive risk. >> So, I'm going to go buy stocks tomorrow. >> I think that's a great idea. I remember
[00:28:11] joining me in thanking Tina Freriedman for being here today. Thank you. Thanks. That was great. Thank you. [Music]