[00:13:55] Everybody has to agree. So if one person says no it doesn't happen. Correct. So one person can veto an investment. Correct. And that happens often or it has. Sometimes it was a good decision and sometimes not. What do the statistics tell you? What's the worst uh thing somebody killed? Oh jeez. It's okay. We're all friends here. What is that list called when you have that? Yeah, you would call it your anti portfolio.
[00:14:19] Anti portfolio. But in this case, somebody wasn't just an anti portfolio. It's like everyone agreed we should do it except the one. Yeah. Yeah. And so you think about that responsibility uh and it weighs on people, but it means that you need to show up with your best game every single day. And you know, part of what we've done is we look at the vote distribution these days and look, if somebody shows up and everybody's really positive, there a
[00:14:43] bunch of people that are eight nines out of 10 and there's one person who clearly woke up at the, you know, in a bad mood and is a three, you know, at some point that person will probably say, "Listen, maybe I just don't get it." This actually happened to me. We listened to a company in late November. This company is thriving right now. They're in the it's pretty sax isn't here because this company's benefiting
[00:15:01] from stable coins with the genius act that he helped put in place is really benefiting from that and I didn't quite get this company at the time and I was the only person who was below the line and I said listen there's something I'm missing in this particular company. I think we should proceed with the investment even though my intuition walking in was that we shouldn't and I'm really glad that we proceeded.
[00:15:20] So can you tell us about the holding company transition that you underwent and the role of being a venture capitalist in making an exit decision? So we did this conversation on the show a few weeks ago. Pulled up some analysis. The biggest winners continue to compound as public companies. 99% of the returns are as a public company or whatever it is. So it looks like an amazing exit goes public. But that's not the end of the value
[00:15:44] creation. True compounders compound for decades. Especially founders are still in the seat. Amazon, Nvidia was a Sequoia investment. I think Google, I mean, these are multi-trillion dollar companies that if you guys held your position to today, I'm assuming things would look a little bit different. It would. Yes. So, so we backed a bunch of very interesting companies over our 50 years. Uh, the companies in which we
[00:16:08] were private investors when they were little companies today account for over 30% of the total value of the NASDAQ. Wow. There's no other 30% over 30% of the combined value of the NASDAQ. Apple, Nvidia, Apple, Cisco, Nvidia, Google, Pala Network, Service Now, uh I mean the list goes on. So pretty pretty good. So So one of the things we realized, what you're alluding to is in 2022, we launched something called the Sequoa
[00:16:36] Capital Fund. And so we realized that the great companies continue to compound as you talked about in that episode. It was it was an excellent episode obviously. Um, and by the way, even in more recent memory, if you look at the last 10-ish years, Palto, Service Now, HubSpot, MongoDB, these companies have all been 10 X's as public companies. And so, we've realized that when we distribute shares prematurely to LPs,
[00:16:59] they don't know any better because, you know, they run a big endowment. They suddenly get $5 million worth of company ABC. They don't know any better. They sell the shares. So, what we've decided to do is for the companies that we believe have the ability to compound longer term, we have a different fund structure. And so 6 12 18 months after the IPO, we can move those shares into this fund called the Sequoa Capital
[00:17:19] Fund. And this now becomes the vehicle through which we fund all our next underlying investment vehicles. Now to give you a sense, since we launched this 3 and a half years ago, we've accumulated another 6.7 billion in gains by doing nothing except being patient. $6.7 billion in gains that our LPs would not have seen if we had just distributed those shares outright. Yeah, you're making him moan. He's moaning.
[00:17:43] I like it. I'm getting I'm getting getting warm and he's getting emotional. But what is but what is the So the counterargument is as a public company, you as venture capitalists who are excellent at interrogating early stage technology, early stage metrics, founder personalities, all the things that might make a good venture capital investor. Maybe as a public company, quarter to quarter, are they growing 12%, 14%.
[00:18:06] There's a different analytical skill set some might argue like you know that that belongs in that investment domain and frankly very hard to beat the indust indices doing that. What's the argument to be made to the counter and why would you counter that argument? So see one of the things for us is that the I mean most of these cases we're involved with these companies literally at inception. I mean Palo Alto Networks
[00:18:30] was incubated inside our office with one founder and my partner Jim Gates. So, we've known these companies since the earliest of days. Why should that relationship end at the IPO? And in most of these cases, as you pointed out, the founders are still there and there's so much more innovation taking place. Um, Jack Dorsey's one of Jack Dorsey's favorite quotes to me was companies have multiple founding moments. And so when you're in
[00:18:55] a company where the the founder keeps reinventing the business, you know, a company like Square, half the revenue today comes from a product called Cash App that hadn't launched for the first 5 years in the company's life. And so if you can find these companies, these special companies where the founders keep pushing the boundary on innovation and they are relentless, then it works. Google buying YouTube. Don't remind me.
[00:19:18] Do you think it would have been the same? Would YouTube still have had the same outcome if it wasn't acquired? To be clear, RUF wrote in his first year or two at the company, the deal memo to invest in YouTube and it got bought for 1.6 billion. Standalone business today would be worth 400500 billion. And then Google then invested quite significantly in infrastructure and enabling scalability and building out a
[00:19:43] team and building out an ad revenue system, etc. We've got Neil here tomorrow to talk about the current state of YouTube, but do you think it could have taken the same? It's hard to say. Hard to say. Uh I think a lot of credit should go to Google for the way that they managed YouTube after the acquisition, both in the resources they provided, the leadership um and they've enabled it to thrive. This is one of my
[00:20:05] favorite things that Peter Thiel says is uh you know when you make it when an acquisition like this happens one side was orders of magnitude off like it was just a zero or it was 100 more than what No text they paid. Something is always off. Anyway, Don Valentine um the founder of the firm drew a four quadrant chart at one point to explain the founders that uh perform extremely well in terms of returns. Maybe you could explain that
[00:20:32] to the audience. Yes. Uh Don pulled me aside in the early days when I joined Sequoia and he said 2x2 matrix uh people are exceptional not exceptional easy to get along with not so easy to get along with. Ruof we normally make money in one of those four quadrants. Your job is to figure out which one and it's the exceptional people who are not so easy to get along with. Uh so then let's talk about the next generation.
[00:21:02] I'm sorry. Can we just double click on that? Why do you think that is? These people change the world. They don't take no for an an for an answer, right? They are How does it Why does that make them hard to get along with, per se? Well, I think he was he was saying that a little bit tongue and cheek, right? But this is a guy who backed Steve Jobs when Steve would walk around Sand Hill Road without shoes. He'd come back from
[00:21:20] a trip to India. Allegedly, he didn't smell too great. Um, and he was unusual and nobody wanted to back him. And you know, Don wanted to find these underdogs, these unknown Atari. Well, apparently some of the Atari board meetings took place in hot tubs. Yes. Uh he told, by the way, that's how he got to Steve because Steve had worked at Atari. That's how Don got the introduction to Steve. So, so I think part of the point
[00:21:46] he was trying to make is don't look for the people that, you know, went to all the right schools and wear the right clothes, all the conventional stuff. Founders are unconventional. These people change the world. I mean, most of us encounter challenges every single day and we accommodate. you know, this thing isn't quite to your liking, you adapt. Founders don't. Founders see things and go, hm, I think the world can look
[00:22:05] different and then they go and try to fix it. They just don't take no for an answer. So, let's fast forward to your two mentors, Michael Moritz and Doug Leone. Two very different characters when the story gets told, maybe a rivalry there um between the two of them. What did you learn from each? Sure. From Doug, I learned heart. Unpack it. Doug has an incredible heart. When did you see that most? What was the moment that's coming to your mind right
[00:22:33] now that you probably shouldn't talk about? Well, the I'll give you two examples. One was in 2009 when I was in a funk. I nearly quit the business. Um I didn't know this really. Well, we'd had the YouTube was a great success. Uh and I felt very good about that. And then you in venture after a few years you val you walk through the valley of despair and you start to realize the things you should have invested in that you didn't and the
[00:22:58] lemons start to drop the things that you did invest in that are not working out. So yes there was the one great quick exit but then a bunch of other things and I was really having a lot of self-doubt and Doug showed up at my house with a homemade pesto jar and he didn't need to. It was on a Saturday afternoon. He knocks on my door. Who's this person at my house? and he just wanted to tell me that he was there to support me through this dark
[00:23:21] period. That was one example. Another one was when uh my son was in hospital and Doug showed up. Didn't have to. Um that meant a lot to me. So, and Michael, Michael's imagination. Michael just has an unbelievable ability to imagine how a company can succeed. And when I thought about my mistakes as an investor, by the way, every single time it comes down to a failure of imagination, that I didn't think big enough. I didn't think about how this
[00:23:48] company could uh progress from where they were. You first introduced me to Twitter 2007. I have the emails before smartphones launched and it was an SMS app. I got tired of getting all your I'm having cappuccino messages on Twitter at the time. I remember on your Blackberry. Yeah. And I didn't quite imagine that it could be what it is today. And so that to me was an example. Uh, I remember an early meeting with Yelp with Jeremy Stppleman
[00:24:13] and Max Lechin in our offices and I mean Yelp hadn't launched a web app that were going to be an email newsletter thing and Michael in this meeting said I imagine that one day restaurants will put a Yelp sticker in the window just like a Zagat or a Michelin star. And he saw that. He saw that. He saw that. I mean 10 years before that became a reality he had the imagination to think about that. That to me is amazing. So now Doug is still there and
[00:24:39] Mike has transitioned out. Is that the what is Yes, Michael has transitioned out completely. Doug has stepped back from day-to-day investing. So he's no longer in partner meetings routinely, but he continues to serve on several boards. And you're in charge. I'm the leader of a team and I think of more like being captain of the team. You play team sport. We play team sport at Sequoia and you know we are equal partners and you know it's
[00:25:02] Was it hard to see those two guys go just seeing how legendary they were? to succeed them? No. Well, both to succeed them, but also just to see them walk out the door. Like, is there a tendency to want to keep them around as long as possible? I understand the question. Um, well, well, firstly, it is very hard to succeed them. I think every single person in Sequoia feels this enormous burden and responsibility to try to match the
[00:25:22] performance that we've been known for, you know, but we have this great generational transition at Sequoa. So, Michael stepped back from day-to-day activity in 2012 and he was Morris did in 2012. of Michael stepped back. He had personal health reasons and he stepped back. He continued to serve on the boards that he was on and we we had him for another decade where I would ask him for advice. You know, as we were
[00:25:45] going through global separation that we talked about earlier, I would ask Doug and Michael, you know, what do you think should we you know, what should we be doing here? Do you have advice for me? And so it's a we have this benefit of intergenerational uh knowledge transfer. Uh Doug was on a call earlier today. Actually, we had a difficult conversation. I wanted his input on an important question and it's not because
[00:26:04] he has the authority to tell me what to No text do. It's because I seek out his advice. You were investing in traditional software, internet services for years and then a couple of years ago you started investing in some life sciences. Does life sciences kind of work as a venture investment today? And what's been the challenge in biotech and life sciences investing generally over the last few years? There's a lot of
[00:26:27] notoriety about the collapse of the market and even Dave Ricks today was saying most public biotech companies are trading below cash. What's your observations on the business model, what you've seen, the types of businesses you've invested in there? So, so the business we invested in uh that has done really well is a company called Nater. Uh and we made a seed investment of a million dollars in 2007 in this company.
[00:26:47] It's 20 billion now, right? Market cap. $22 billion market cap. It was a million dollars. two people uh with a a very raw idea and today they're the leading provider of prenatal testing, oncology, recurrence monitoring, organ transplant projection testing. And so that company's been a huge success. Diagnostics, genetic diagnostics, has been a huge success. And you think about the the dividend we're still collecting
[00:27:08] from the human genome project 25 years ago. It's incredible. And you've obviously seen that in some of the businesses that you've helped build as well. uh we did make an investment in a company called Bridge Bio which is helping with rare genetic disease drug development. Uh but other than that I think we're we just don't have the expertise for biotech. You know we don't have any M but there are still winners.
[00:27:26] There are still winners but we have no MD PhDs on our team at Sequoia. And I think you know it's very dangerous when people think that your success in one domain just naturally makes you uh gives you the right to compete in other domains. I think I have tremendous respect for the people who understand that. I do not. I learned that one the hard way. Ladies and gentlemen, Roloff. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. I
[00:27:54] appreciate you coming out. Thanks.