[00:00:00] No text [Music] Sequoia is the most soughta name in the venture capital business. The firm has made over a thousand investments now worth in the trillions in public market value. There's a list of five VCs who I think can really transform a company and you're one of those five. When I joined Sequoia, it was clear that if I wanted to make it as a partner, you needed to produce meaningful games. YouTube, Instagram, Square. This is a
[00:00:27] list of amazing amazing startups. Our ambition is to build a partnership that endures and that means we need to leave it in a better place than we found it. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Seoia Capitals Rolloff Botha. See you. See you. What's up, bro? How are you? Good to see you. Welcome, Ralph. There's a question. What's that? Where did Saxs go? Get to pee pee. He had to make a weiw wee. Come on. You Yeah, exactly. You guys did work
[00:01:02] together for 25 years ago and he just abandons us right now. He's had enough of you. Um, everybody No text wants to know who's your favorite Sequoia scout of all time. Let's go through it. Jason Calakanas. It is hilarious. Um, when you think about it, you came to me, gosh, 15 years ago, and you said, "I have an idea for a program. It's called Sequoia Scouts. We'd like to, um, have you go around and invest in some companies."
[00:01:35] And, uh, no good deed shall go unpunished. Absolutely. Created a monster. Um, but that program Sorry, before you ask your question, how far are you going to insert your head up Roloff's ass? [Applause] We sat him that far away for a reason. I mean, um, sorry, bro. Jesus Christ. Go on with your question. That's Let me land the question. What's your question, D? That program, um, had some that first cohort of individuals
[00:02:06] um, wound up being a pretty interesting group of folks. Maybe you could tell everybody just a little bit about that program you conceived of and then who were some of the first folks in it and the first investments. We conceived of this program as you mentioned in 2010 when we launched it and the idea was that there were a bunch of contemporary founders who had very interesting access to upand cominging founders who are
[00:02:29] turning to them for advice but these founders didn't yet have money at the point that you became a scout. You didn't have the net worth you have now where you could write a check on your own. And so we thought it'd be a great program for us to provide the capital for founders like yourself to be able to invest in those companies and hopefully we would get an introduction to those companies for us to be able to make an
[00:02:48] investment too. So uh you were in that program you helped us with the investment in Uber. Sam Alman was in that group as well. He helped with an investment in a little company called Stripe. They did. Okay. So at this point that that fund is a 26x fund at this point. Wow. That's up there in the It's pretty good. What's the best fund in the history of Sequoia? Was it the Google fund, the WhatsApp fund? Which one has the highest multiple in history?
[00:03:13] Uh the highest multiple in history is uh I think Venture 12, which has Airbnb, Dropbox, Nera, ADM Mob and a couple of other companies. And then venture 13 which is the fund right after that has stripe and square now called block and a bunch of other companies. So those were both north of 20x funds. Tell us about the No text venture industry actually. So we're at a point in the cycle where there's been a lot of specialization both maybe at the
[00:03:47] stage level at the sector level. There's been all kinds of experimentation and approaches in strategy. Can you just level set on what you've learned and what the industry's learned and where we are? I'm glad you called it an industry, not an asset class. Um, I listened to one of the shows you guys had recently and I think there's a huge problem with the venture industry that there's too much money and you guys have talked about
[00:04:10] this before. Uh, venture industry as a whole invests right now between 150 to $200 billion a year was the last numbers I saw. If you think about reasonable assumptions for returns, let's just say 12% peranom net, which isn't great. Might as well invest in an index fund, the math basically implies that you need three and a half to 4x funds to make that math work over a reasonable time frame. So if you're investing, let's
[00:04:34] just say $200 billion a year. The industry needs to give back 7800 billion a year. VCs don't own 100% of the company last time I checked. So that means that the aggregate exit value is north of a trillion a year. So Figma went public recently. They're worth 25$26 billion. You need 40 Figmas a year for the industry to make the returns work, which means that they don't. So in my opinion, investing in venture is a returnfree risk. You
[00:05:03] shouldn't. They're basically only about 20 companies. You said return return free risk. risk. Exactly. If you look at every single decade, there are only about 20 companies that end up getting exit values north of a billion dollars. Actual IPOs or M&As north of a billion. Not the paper writeups, only 20 companies. More money doesn't create more great ideas or more great founders. So, I think there is way too much money
[00:05:27] in the industry. The industry does provide a lot of value. It provides some of the knowhow for entrepreneurs to succeed and obviously leads to job creation and all the attendant benefits for America. But there is too much money and too many people who want to be investors. How does the money get level set then and right sized for what is needed? I've been wondering that for 20 years. Uh this problem is a problem 20 years
[00:05:49] ago. It is only it's an incredibly sexy asset class. I mean look, Jason writes a bestselling book. It doesn't, you know, dissuade people. It incentivizes more people to say, "Oh, I can try this. I'll be like it." I mean, it's just a self-fulfilling prophecy. The more successes there are, there's just um Yeah. Everybody wants to go to Vegas and, you know, strike it rich. It doesn't happen. Yeah. That's part of the dynamic is that you
[00:06:10] get a firm that has one success in their fund and then they attract more capital because people think it's repeatable and it's not. And you don't know you don't know that till fund three or four. Like often they raise fund three before they've even oh they've raised fund two, three, four, and five before even fund one is really fully distributed a lot of times. So what could change for one one of the things that I thought was transparency
[00:06:32] but nobody wants to publish their returns. You could publish your returns. I publish my returns but you know I'm not taking outside capital but would that help? Like is it working with people like Cambridge so that these things become more public and more understood? It seems like there's an education element here that's missing on behalf of the industry to the potential LPS. I think people will still hide behind the J curve effect and they'll
[00:06:56] say yeah my fund is only at 1.5x right now but it's only four years in and you know the winners are going to emerge and so I think this this hope springs eternal dynamic and such a long time period of gestation before the companies get realized that I don't think that uh will change that dynamic unfortunately there's also been this really interesting effect where it's been this industrialization of venture capital I
[00:07:18] will call it so if you look at the organization that has built the organization that General Catalyst has built. It's about this girthiness, right, across many different things. How has Sequoia reacted when they've seen those movements? And I'm sure you've had to sit down as a partnership and say, are we matching this? Are we copying this? Are we going to do the same thing? Are we doing something different? That is a great question. The industry
[00:07:41] has changed a lot since I got into venture just over 20 years ago. If you go back to the proverbial 1990s venture firm, it was, you know, a dozen people sitting around a table making investment decisions with very lightweight staff. Uh, and it was much more of a cottage industry. I think the industry is professionalized and really the founders are the ones who benefited from it because all these firms have built
[00:08:02] larger operating teams to be able to help those founders with talent, with go to market and so I think it's really helping founders. That's probably the main takeaway I have from that. We've decided to not build as big an organization. Most of the operating teams we have at Sequoia help us. So we have about as many developers at Sequoia as we have investors and they're building products for us so that we are
[00:08:24] much more effective and productive than we might have been 20 years ago. What's an example of that that they're building for you? Uh so you know my phone I can pull up an app that I if you give me any company name I'll be able to tell you who my team last met, how we rated it. I'll give you uh data on what's happening with their hiring. Uh how many vouched employees they have, how good do we think their engineering team is based on
[00:08:43] their history, their academic profiles, etc. All this information is at my fingertips. Uh if we get business plan submissions, we have an AI system that will summarize it for me. So I get a very quick read on the company, a quick summarization of the quality of the team and a very quick analysis of the competitive dynamics and the other companies I should consider alongside them. So these are just small examples
[00:09:01] of the things we do. We just had Joe No text Saiion on. We're talking a bit about the relationship between America and China. You had a fabulous business in China for two decades, I believe, with Neil. Yeah. And it did absolutely fantastic. But then the government of the United States said, "Hey, we cannot as venture capitalists invest in China anymore." So, what are your what's your take on the the opportunity in China? Will that
[00:09:26] return? and and just the the experience you had with all those incredible hits at the time. When we first went into China, it was 2007 I think. Uh the world was flat was the moniker at the time. China gained admission to the World Trade Organization in I think 2001 and we all believed that it would integrate into the global economy. That premise proved wrong. And so we had a period where it was really interesting
[00:09:55] to be able to share knowledge and share ideas and sort of figure out how we can build a globally interconnected set of systems and companies. Uh and life just got too hard for that honestly and we saw just more division between the two countries. So we embarked on global separation just over 2 years ago and what used to be China is now an independent business called Hongchan and they're off to the races. I think
[00:10:17] there's a real challenge in China right now. Uh some stat I got recently in 2018 there were 51,000 companies started in China. In 20123 it was 1,200. Wow. How many? 1,200. You had a 98% reduction in the number of companies founded in China. Cuz if you're an entrepreneur in China, why would you want to start a company when the government regulations are so uncertain? Which by the way is an interesting warning sign for me for us in America as
[00:10:46] we think about AI policy and AI regulation. The more uncertainty we create for founders, the more difficult it is for them to actually take that risk, take that leap to start a business. So, but Chinese entrepreneurship is still strong. So, you see many Chinese entrepreneurs now operating in Latin America, they move to Singapore, they're in uh Japan, they're moving to Europe. I mean, you can't repress that spirit. Rolof, there's a
[00:11:07] interesting dynamic that I observed which is you have the early early stage venture companies who have had an incredible track record. you guys, Benchmark, Kosla, and then what happens is you have these latest stage firms, but many of the companies that they fund need so much money that the latestage firms can't service them. So, you have to go direct. You go right to Saudi, you go right to the Qataris, you go right to the
[00:11:32] Amiradis, you go right to Norway, you know, these sovereign wealth funds that are writing these big checks. And so, it creates this really weird dynamic where you almost become this kind of glorified placement agent almost. So there's this part of the curve and then there's all this money that goes over here. How do you adapt the business in the face of that dynamic? Well, we stick to our knitting. Uh the funds we operate today, our seed venture
[00:11:55] and growth funds today are no bigger than they were 5, six, seven years ago. We we realize that there's money to be made for some people writing very large checks and very latest stage companies. But uh our aspiration is to be the number one investment manager for our limited partners. We literally want to be the best net IRRa and net multiple for our LPS and we're not interested in maximizing fees or maximizing share of
[00:12:22] industry value creation. That's the game we've chosen to play. And so there's no path where Sequoa for example tries to go public or take the you know that's like it's just not in the strategy of the business. No, actually we've structured ourselves to be a private partnership in perpetuity to the extent possible under California law. We have the sense of stewardship. You have to leave the partnership in a better place than you found it. Don
[00:12:47] Valentine didn't call it Valentine Ventures when he started it. He handed the partnership over to a next generation with Mike Meritz and Doug Leone and Jim Gett. And you know, we're now part of a third generation, our team currently running the partnership. We didn't have to pay to get the partnership from the previous generation and nor will we charge the next generation. That's that's our motto. No text How would you describe the culture
[00:13:09] that's driven the success rolloff? So when you select partners, what do you look for? How do you value those partners? How do you assess the performance of those partners? And how do you guys operate that kind of defines the culture? So I think the probably the most important characteristic we look for is an insatiable curiosity in the individual. We look for people who are extremely driven, but they need to have
[00:13:32] a heart of gold. So one of the things we talk about at Squay is um we cherish individualism and teamwork. You need an individual to be able to have a keen insight and propose an investment but you've got to work with a team and that the whole teamwork aspect is really important for us. So when you make investment decisions at Sequoa it's a consensus decision which blew my mind when I first got there. I meaning everybody has to agree.
[00:13:55] Everybody has to agree. So if one person says no it doesn't happen. Correct. So one person can veto an investment. Correct. And that happens often or it has. Sometimes it was a good decision and sometimes not. What do the statistics tell you? What's the worst uh thing somebody killed? Oh jeez. It's okay. We're all friends here. What is that list called when you have that? Yeah, you would call it your anti portfolio.
[00:14:19] Anti portfolio. But in this case, somebody wasn't just an anti portfolio. It's like everyone agreed we should do it except the one. Yeah. Yeah. And so you think about that responsibility uh and it weighs on people, but it means that you need to show up with your best game every single day. And you know, part of what we've done is we look at the vote distribution these days and look, if somebody shows up and everybody's really positive, there a
[00:14:43] bunch of people that are eight nines out of 10 and there's one person who clearly woke up at the, you know, in a bad mood and is a three, you know, at some point that person will probably say, "Listen, maybe I just don't get it." This actually happened to me. We listened to a company in late November. This company is thriving right now. They're in the it's pretty sax isn't here because this company's benefiting
[00:15:01] from stable coins with the genius act that he helped put in place is really benefiting from that and I didn't quite get this company at the time and I was the only person who was below the line and I said listen there's something I'm missing in this particular company. I think we should proceed with the investment even though my intuition walking in was that we shouldn't and I'm really glad that we proceeded.
[00:15:20] So can you tell us about the holding company transition that you underwent and the role of being a venture capitalist in making an exit decision? So we did this conversation on the show a few weeks ago. Pulled up some analysis. The biggest winners continue to compound as public companies. 99% of the returns are as a public company or whatever it is. So it looks like an amazing exit goes public. But that's not the end of the value
[00:15:44] creation. True compounders compound for decades. Especially founders are still in the seat. Amazon, Nvidia was a Sequoia investment. I think Google, I mean, these are multi-trillion dollar companies that if you guys held your position to today, I'm assuming things would look a little bit different. It would. Yes. So, so we backed a bunch of very interesting companies over our 50 years. Uh, the companies in which we