[00:27:47] which is like airlines and other things scale, which they seem to be scaling with the consumer business, Starlink alone could be generating on the order of 40 billion dollars of revenue top line with a huge amount of that flowing to free cash. That could be a 30 billion dollar free cash flow within the year. That alone provides the cash flow to fund much of what what Elon's doing. And if you just put a 30X multiple on that,
[00:28:12] which I think you can because these subscription businesses are very high renewal rate, very low CAC, I think he could probably get a 30X just on the Starlink business. The Starlink business alone could be a trillion dollar market cap within 2 years, within 18 months, let's say. That I think funds all of the rest of this is kind of science projects and upside. So, I'm kind of making a bull case. It's crazy to me how well the
[00:28:36] Starlink business performs, and you can see it in AT&T and Verizon, HughesNet, ViaSat. I mean, these companies have been decimated. I used to have a HughesNet satellite dish on my Sonoma County ranch in order to get internet, that's what we had to use. It was like, you know, 200 bucks a month or something. >> Terrible, cuz those are high orbit, right? And they take forever to >> Terrible service. And that market got
[00:28:58] decimated by Starlink. And if he launches the handset thing, that subscriber growth is going to go right now he's adding 2 million subscribers on the consumer side a quarter. You could see that going to 4 to 5 million a quarter. You could actually see an acceleration in the consumer subscriptions. >> mobile subs 400 million mobile subs just in the United States. >> I think you can make you can make the bull case on Starlink alone. And then
[00:29:21] the rest of it is like, hey, is Elon going to do well with investing the excess capital that's spinning off of Starlink? How is Elon going to do with that money? Well, I don't know who else I give it to >> [laughter] >> to like, you know, do what he's doing with Starship and with AI compute and the terrafab. >> Oh my god, this is the science fiction uh story of Starlink County, Texas. >> how the US gets off of this dependency
[00:29:43] with Taiwan and China from semiconductors, if Elon takes this on his shoulders and he delivers what he's showing as a vision here today, this is going to be the greatest semiconductor fabrication site on planet Earth. >> Well, you know, I I would say something, you know, David, to your point. You know how many CEOs or founders would just take that Starlink business, which is such an exceptional business, m- trillion-dollar business going to 2
[00:30:08] trillion, and they would not take any of these other risks. They would not do terrafab, they would not try to build out the data center, they would not try to build their own model. That's highly risky, but highly important investments that are being made. I mean, it is heroic and important that we have this level of I just think unbridled enthusiasm for innovation uh on the frontier that Elon's doing, and I
[00:30:32] wish we saw more CEOs, more public companies willing to take this level of risk. We just got done talking about, you know, some CEOs maybe that were taking less risk because the safe bet was was easier to make. Elon refuses just to take the safe bet. He's taking all the dollars from this thing where he has an extraordinary business and plowing them back into these things that are critically important to the United
[00:30:56] States. >> And by the way, Brad, that's such a good point because if you look at other CEOs and other management teams, they're getting in on this. They're starting to realize that buying back your shares, giving dividends is not as important as betting on the future. DoorDash got taken to the woodshed because they're investing too much in capex. Obviously, Google got smacked with their capex spend. So, that keeps happening over and
[00:31:16] over again. And just on the headwinds that SpaceX is going to face, the arguments that I think will turn out to be wrong, but they're valid to talk about here are, "Hey, is this demand for tokens and compute going to keep up or does on-prem and desktops and open-source models getting smaller, better? Does that actually mute at some point demand?" I don't think it does. I don't know there's an upper Uh I don't know if there's an upper
[00:31:42] bound for on-demand intelligence. The second one, obviously, is Starlink is for people who are in a rural neighborhood. If you've got Verizon fiber to your building or Spectrum, you're not putting, nor can you put, a Starlink on your building. So, the piece there that's going to be um uh explained probably in the next year or two is every single Tesla sold is going to have Starlink in it. When they get that merger done, what that means is
[00:32:08] you're going to have Wi-Fi networks uh connecting any phone to any Tesla, say all those robo-taxis out there, you'll be able to connect also directly with the next generation of Starlink. So, your phone will be able to direct if it's got clear line of sight, it's going to be able to connect to any Tesla on the road, which there are many, that all future ones will have a Starlink built into them. So, those are super promising. And then finally,
[00:32:31] you know, there's been a lot of speculation about the valuation. Brad, you brought it up. I think that liquidity when people were asking you and I heard you talk about it, hey, private companies, venture capital, we are a voting mechanism, and then when it goes public, it becomes a weighing mechanism, and sometimes you'll have this moment in time where there's hand-wringing about those valuations, and the hand-wringing peaked
[00:32:55] in the last quarter. You had 160 times uh price-to-sales ratio for Tesla when it first came out. 160 times, right? You You take their This two or three trillion-dollar market cap, and you put it against a smaller revenue number. Well, if you look at the revenue number increasing, now we're down to a 45 times price-to-sales ratio. So, some kind of uh balance is occurring here. Yeah, Brad, between these private and
[00:33:21] public markets, as well as the increase in revenue. >> Yeah, I I I mean, honestly, I think this is all super healthy. I think the SpaceX IPO was extraordinary. I think the consolidation here is perfectly predictable. And now you have a company at 1.4 trillion that I think if you take a three-year or a four-year view, you can see yourself tripling your money in this business at a very reasonable valuation on the Morgan Stanley numbers
[00:33:45] or on the Elon numbers or whatever, but that's always been the bet. Do you believe that Elon is the greatest innovator and a great allocator of capital? But the price of entry matters, right? When you get carried away on day one of an IPO, and you buy this thing over two trillion, you got to know that this is going to happen. I was on CNBC the day of the IPO, and I said I would want to own this company, but I'm not
[00:34:06] sure today's the day I would buy the company. Right? And so, I you know, >> Entry price matters. I mean, this is just a fundamental. >> but let me give you another one, you know, like we've talked about the Anthropic IPO, or a lot of people have talked about it later this year. I hear a lot of people saying 1.5 or 2 trillion dollars. David just talked earlier that it's going to be run rating over 100 billion maybe by the end of the year.
[00:34:27] That's like 10 to 15 times revenue. That is not that much for a company that just grew 10 X and is rumored to be profitable in Q2. And so I look at the market, the consolidation we saw in the month of July, you know, we put in the Leopold bottom hopefully in July that, you know, a lot of semi stocks were down. And I literally bought the bottom. Hey, hey, listen, the guy's doing great. He He's apparently still up 80% for the
[00:34:54] year, just made another big private investment. I I I I think he's done an extraordinarily good job building a firm in a short period of time. But the market did panic around that. As as as he had to cover I think all of that is really good. So as I look ahead marching to these IPOs later in the year on the back of the SpaceX IPO, I think we're in in in really good shape. You know, particularly if these revenues
[00:35:17] continue a pace. >> You know what Elon's really good at is just building stuff. Like >> Yeah. >> Factories, physical physical physical sites. That is such a core advantage in this world where everyone's competing for data centers and fabs. The software layer needs hardware in the physical world in order to deliver their software services. And there is no one better than Elon at actually doing that. Look at how gigafactories have been stood up around
[00:35:43] the world. This is his core competency. So Brad, like when you put Elon up against a Dario and a Sam and even an Alphabet which has 27 years of doing this I mean, man, Elon's got a core advantage if this is what this world comes down to. >> He said something like that on the call where he said, "Look, putting up data centers is nothing compared to the difficulty of putting up a rocket, right? It's like, you know, creating
[00:36:09] data centers is not rocket science." So they take some of those hardware expertise that they have from SpaceX and they put them into data centers and that's why they've been able to stand up you know, more data centers or or bigger data centers faster than all the competitors. A couple points there. Is it clear why Starship is so important to Starlink? Okay, let me just explain this quickly. So, basically SpaceX has developed a new V3 satellite
[00:36:33] that has 10x the bandwidth of its V2 satellite. So, currently the Starlink network is powered by V2 satellites. They deploy them on the Falcon 9 rocket and they launch about 27 satellites per launch and that adds about 2.6 terabits per second of total network capacity. Starship deploys 60 of these V3 satellites per launch. That would add 60 terabits per second of total network capacity per launch. So, over 20 times
[00:37:09] more capacity per launch. That's the power of it. So, if they get Starship working. By the way, the last test, not only did it prove that the heat shield worked, my understanding is they actually launched or rather they deployed 20 V3 satellites as a test. And they were able to make connection with those satellites and prove that it worked. >> They even had cameras on them. The reason we were able to see the Starship
[00:37:35] was because they're like, "YOLO, let's put some cameras HD cameras on them." >> Right. Now, I think those satellites basically was just a test and they They burned They burned up. So, I think the next big milestone here will be when they launch Starship with, let's say, 60 of these V3 satellites, put them in the correct orbit, make connection with them, add the bandwidth to the network. That's going to be a big milestone. But,
[00:37:57] you play this out to its logical conclusion and the bandwidth available to the Starlink network goes up 10x or eventually 100x times and that's when they can do all the interesting things like direct to cellular. There were some interesting hints that Gwynne Shotwell talked about about with ground stations about what they could potentially do there. >> And I think I think they might buy T-Mobile or something like that, Sachs.
[00:38:20] It's easily within their range of purchases. >> And and I think Elon mentioned something about potentially the the Starlink network could eventually handle roughly half of internet traffic. So, I mean, this this thing could get so much bigger than just 12 million subscribers to your point, Freeberg. But look, I I want to actually talk about the data centers for a second, Brad. I I do have a couple of questions about
[00:38:42] this. So, Elon mentioned that, okay, we're going to be at 2 gigawatts by the end of the year. He said that we will be at 5 to 10 next year, closer to 10 than 5. So, let's just say 8, okay? So, I'm just making that up, but it's in their range. So, let's just say that's an add of 6 gigawatts. So, they go from 2 to 8. Okay? To me, there's two questions there. One is, how do you know that the spot price is going to stay
[00:39:08] where it is? You know, can it stay at $50 per watt? How do we know? How do we track that? How much risk is there around that? I got the sense on the call that Elon thinks that number is going up because the market is memory constrained right now. I think he mentioned that we might see a 20% increase in memory production next year, but the demand is going up 200% plus. So, the market is constrained by whatever the bottleneck is at that time.
[00:39:35] Right now, the bottleneck is memory. So, where do you see the spot price going? How do we know? How much risk is there around that? And then, the other question I would have is if you go from 2 to 8 gigawatts, that you have net of 6. We know that a gigawatt power data center is, you know, 50 billion of CapEx. >> Right. >> So, 6 incremental gigawatts of compute would be 300 billion of CapEx next year. Assuming they build that, right? I mean,
[00:40:03] they have optionality around that, I'm sure. So, how do you finance that? You know, what's the most non-dilutive way? They said their payback is a year or less. I'm sure that's tied to the spot price. So, you only have to finance it for a year, and the question is, do you think Nvidia gives them that financing or how will this play out, I guess is my question. >> It's a great framing, David. First, it's $50 billion per gigawatt to build
[00:40:27] minimum. Okay, so you're $300 billion. So, in order to finance that, it seems to me you either have to go into the market and borrow the money or you have to do a dilutive equity raise, neither of which they want to do. Um or you get Nvidia to backstop it. Um which they've indicated that they're going to do more but the problem there is Nvidia shareholders don't want them backstopping unlimited because the fear
[00:40:51] in the world is that that sprite spot price at some point, right, may go against you and when it does, the payback period changes. Now, nobody thinks that the payback period is going to be 1 year even though the spot price is suggesting that it is that today, right? Just a few years ago, people thought you would get paid or not few years ago, few months ago, people thought you'd get payback over 4 years. So, you basically spend 50,
[00:41:15] you then earn 10 to 15 per year, you get payback over 4 to 5 years and then hopefully you get the 6th year which really takes you up well above 20% in terms of your returns. Um right now, the shortage is so acute and the willingness to pay from the front frontier labs is so high because they all recognize they're on the verge of some massive breakthroughs that they're willing to pay three, four, five X market pricing in order to get at
[00:41:46] scale compute. And that's what happened with the Anthropic deal with SpaceX. I think Anthropic would buy a lot more of that today if they could. Same with OpenAI. >> You're saying, Brad, they would be willing to overpay by a factor of up to five X. >> Well, that's the 50 that you know, that's the $50 per watt that David was referencing. They would be willing to pay this 30 to 50 if they could get at scale compute that would give them a
[00:42:09] competitive advantage over the other people in the market. And remember, there aren't a lot of people who have the off-take revenue that can afford to buy compute at this scale, right? It wasn't the Chinese open source companies that were buying, you know, SpaceX's excess computer, building the 10 gigawatt you know, plant in in Ohio. That's OpenAI and Anthropic. So, the vast majority of the off-take commitments are coming from Anthropic,
[00:42:34] OpenAI, and Nvidia, right? When you hear about the hyperscalers building all of this out you know, this computer out they're building it out to sell to the people that we you know, that we just mentioned. So, David, net net if he builds 6 gigawatts next year, and by the way, probably only Elon, you know, can actually stand up that much in that time frame. Like Jensen said to me on the pod, it's like nobody comes close. Microsoft doesn't come
[00:43:00] close, you know, Google doesn't come close in terms of standing it up in that time frame. Um I think that he's going to have a challenge, you know, getting all of the componentry, right? I know he can stand it up, but can he get the memory? Can he get the chips? Can he get the land power shell all in time? I think the off-take is there. Right? But to put it in perspective, this year Anthropic and OpenAI combined,
[00:43:23] their starting total compute was like 5 gigawatts. So, he's talking about incrementally adding more than they had as combined companies, right? >> that much of an increase when Anthropic is growing 10x year over year, and OpenAI is maybe at what, 4x or maybe higher now? >> The demand exists in the world. The demand exists in the world today. I think it will exist in the world for well, you know, the next 12 to 24
[00:43:49] months, but there is a wall of worry in the market. The reason we saw the pullback in July is Kimmy scared people into thinking, "Oh my gosh, they're going to undercut the Frontier's revenues." And if they undercut the Frontier Labs revenues, who the hell is going to pay for all this compute? That's why you saw a 40% trade down in the CoreWeaves of the world and you know, the the all of the the semiconductor stocks and semiconductor