[00:14:14] a true statement for the work I'm doing, and he said, Elon responded back to me, it's actually a world of difference. You know, if you're doing something other than making a copy of a video game, or you have incredible speed needs, the frontier models are not necessary anymore. They're just not necessary. The people using the frontier models are doing it because their company set it up, and they it's too hard to implement open-source right now,
[00:14:40] but it's going to get easier and easier to implement it. So, I'm still going with open-source and Gemini being the leaders in this space. >> it it it's true for your use cases that, let's say, the cheaper commodity intelligence, that middle of the market is good enough. Look, an Android phone would be good enough for me. I could get by on a cheap Android phone. You know what? I still pay a premium for this because I use it so much. So, if you're
[00:15:05] a business that, let's say, you are a hedge fund, and you're in a highly competitive industry, you don't want to take the chance that you're not getting the best intelligence to power your models, you know? And there's a lot of industries like that where the competitive dynamics will drive you to pay for the best intelligence. There's also situations, this goes back to the blog post that Decagon posted, which is
[00:15:26] if you're looking for use cases, you also want to use the True Frontier. Because again, when you're dealing with immature use cases, you don't know where the value is going to be and you're searching for opportunity to use AI, you just want to use the best. Because again, the return on finding those use cases is going to be so much greater than the small premium you're paying at the token level. So, I think there's a
[00:15:48] lot of examples like that when, you know, the use case where you're in a competitive industry, where you're just deploying AI, you want the convenience of the full stack. >> go Frontier model to summarize your >> again, you know, unless your employees are doing something stupid, like you create a leaderboard and they're token maxing, I don't think the cost is that great. And again, the benefit that you're getting is huge. So, a lot of
[00:16:08] people just like, give me the best. I'm willing to pay a premium for the best. >> I'll take a slightly different take. I think that it's not necessarily do you take the best model or the open source model. I think that there's a blend that's happening. At least that's what I see. For example, we'll use open source, open weights for a vast majority of simple workflow applications. But when it comes to specialized applications,
[00:16:31] where we really need to have high-quality model proficiency, for example, in life sciences, in genomics modeling, I am going to go for the premium model. If I'm working at a media company and I'm trying to do AI rendering of video, I'm going to use Gemini's model that does video. It is the best model or Sora or whatever the best model is for that particular application. So, I think the idea that there's kind of a model that you pick
[00:16:56] for everything, I think is the false assumption. On the consumer side, it is likely the case that the consumers are not going to be using some open weight model because they can pay 20-40 bucks a month and get ChatGPT or Gemini or Claude and be very happy paying 40 bucks a month and they'll basically be able to minimize their cost to run that for consumers. For enterprise, I think the enterprise is going to be very active in
[00:17:19] selecting a blend of models that are going to make the most sense. Very cheap open weight model for simple workflow applications, individual employees spinning up an app, whatever, and then more complex models for those really key workflow tasks, and then specialized models. And I will say it is way too early to count Gemini out on building incredible specialized models. They have the best video data, they have the best
[00:17:42] life sciences data, they've been working on this for far longer than Anthropic or OpenAI on the life sciences side. They're very well ahead on that front. I mean, Demis is still going to be running Isomorphic Labs. So, when it comes to these specialized models, verticalized specialized models like video, life sciences, protein folding, I think these are the things where you're really going to see Gemini shine. And then every
[00:18:01] enterprise is going to have a mixture. But hey, if you can be the cloud service provider with that mixture of models, which is what Google GCP can now be, I'm going to sign up for working with GCP versus working just with Anthropic. >> One of the things this has created is downward pressure on the pricing. We saw OpenAI and Claude do massive price cuts for tokens, so they are reacting, they're not taking it sitting down. And the orchestration
[00:18:26] between these models is being built into a lot of furnaces inside of enterprises. So, what's your take on the downward pressure on token pricing, or is this just great for consumers and enterprises cuz we've got massive competition? >> That's the thing. America's winning. It's exactly what you want. We have massively competitive market. We have Chinese open source, domestic open source, frontier national labs that are
[00:18:49] doing what they're doing. We have downward pressure on pricing. You know, David referenced the duopoly. You know, I think it's hard to call it a duopoly when you're, you know, only a few years into this and you have giants like Amazon, Microsoft, and Google. I do think he's right. I do think they've emerged, you know, as the pure plays. Their revenues would suggest that they're, you know, they're gaining share
[00:19:09] of wallet. But there are two points I want to make here, because I think they're non-consensus views that were spoken this week. One was Elon's response to you, Jason. Right? Over the last 2 weeks, everybody's been saying that the Chinese have caught up, that open-source tokens have caught up in intelligence, that they're much cheaper, et cetera. And Elon comes out and says, "Not so fast. We're entering the singularity, and the frontier models are
[00:19:33] way further ahead than people think." I believe that to be true. I think for your use case, they're very similar, but I don't think that's the most sophisticated use case that people are trying to train on and trying to experience. And then Jensen came out this week and said, "Closed models are actually cheaper." You know, if you don't have to build it for yourself, if you don't have to you know, the training costs and a lot
[00:19:56] of expertise to fine-tune and maintain and guardrail and keep it safe. So, he's basically making the argument that not only are the the the frontier models further ahead, but that the cost differential between the two is not what everybody's making it out to see to be, which I think explains why they continue to run away with it on the revenue side of the equation. Um, but I think we have healthy competition. I you're right, J
[00:20:20] Cal. You know, for the vast majority of use cases, I think token consumption is going up for the open-source guys, while share of economics is going up for the frontier labs. I think that's what we want to see. >> Yeah, and it's just Android versus iPhone all over again. One platform makes the profit, one gets the majority of users, at least globally in usage. Uh, or let's suck SpaceX here. Uh, they had their first earnings report as a
[00:20:43] public company. Shares dropped 13% uh, I think because people were a little concerned about the surging AI capex. It's down 30% since going public in June, but it's now trading at it seems to have settled in at a 1.4 trillion-dollar valuation. Went public obviously above 2 trillion. Q2 results were uh, spectacular. That is the only way to put it. 7.8 billion in revenue, up 92% year-over-year. Let that sink in.
[00:21:11] And 67% quarter-over-quarter. AI revenue, Elon web services, more than tripled quarter-over-quarter to $2.6 billion. That's not cursor. That hasn't closed yet. But that's going to be one of the great purchases in history. This is from Elon web services renting out compute specifically to Anthropic and Google from the Colossus collection of servers. But CapEx was up 18.4 billion in the quarter. That's 6x year-over-year.
[00:21:40] Obviously, you can do the math there for a run rate of about 75 billion dollars. I'll stop there and get your reaction, Brad, to the SpaceX IPO. I know you've been tracking this and commented on it heavily. >> I mean, listen. I think that what First, let's start off. $1.4 trillion of value creation for this company is extraordinary. So, the fact that from peak to trough it's down 40 or 50% from the IPO. We had that chart out a few
[00:22:05] weeks ago. Remember that within 6 months of the IPO, almost all these tech stocks are down 50% peak to trough. We see it again here with SpaceX. I thought it was a really solid quarter. I thought his guides were pretty extraordinary. 100 billion in ARR by the end of the year. And he pulled forward the $1 trillion target in ARR by a year from 2031 to 2030. Now, to just put that in perspective, Morgan Stanley's 2030
[00:22:30] revenue estimate is 325 billion, which is also extraordinary. Remember, this company did 18 billion in revenue last year. So, whether you're taking Morgan Stanley's numbers or Elon's numbers, clearly the market is not pricing that in. At 2 trillion, we were pricing ahead a couple years. I think now it's you know, the the value reflects kind of where we are. The market has questions about a few things. Here's what they
[00:22:54] are. Number one, on the rental business, the rental of compute business. He rented out a huge block of compute to Anthropic. It's the question that we've been talking about here. Are you going to use the compute to build your own frontier model or you going to rent it out? And if you rent it out, are you going to be able to find those people who have the capital to off-take that compute? He's talking enormous numbers,
[00:23:17] 10 to 20 gigs, and people are wondering how they're going to be able to finance that. And remember those businesses, the GPU rental businesses, tend to trade at very low multiples. Look at CoreWeave, etc. On the frontier model business, I think this is the sleeper. I think he said on the call that Grok tripled tokens in the month of July. That doesn't include Cursor. Cursor was already on a path to go from 3 billion
[00:23:41] to 10 billion by the end of the year. Cursor plus Grok could be at 10 to 20 billion by the end of the year. That would be an extraordinarily valuable asset going to trade at a much higher multiple than the data center business. And then, of course, we haven't even talked about Starlink and what he's going to do, uh, you know, I think going to run the table on mobile. So, this is the normal consolidation. We have funds like, uh,
[00:24:04] uh, across Silicon Valley that are distributing their shares. The stock is traded down a bit, nothing surprising to me here. Now, it's all about execution. I think the most important thing to watch, the two most important things to watch are number one, how do the Grok and Cursor revenues end the year? >> Mhm. >> And number two, um, you know, the traction they get on, um, you know, continuing to replace traditional mobile
[00:24:26] carriers with Starlink. >> The distribution started, I think, today or yesterday. I got my first distribution from a fund I'm in. I'm in a couple of funds that are in SpaceX. Seems like everybody's in that. And that will obviously create downward pressure if you are amongst the people who want to cash out and have been in it for a long time, but I'm holding these for my grandkids. Sacks, your take on these spectacular, yeah, I guess, is the only
[00:24:50] way to describe them, results coming from a vertical that wasn't part of SpaceX's business but 9 months ago. >> Yeah, look, I thought it was a very bullish earnings call. I was a little bit surprised that the stock went down after the earnings call because not only was it a beat and raise, but also I think Elon spoke to a lot of their plans. And the only thing I would add to to what Brad said was around Starship.
[00:25:14] Elon basically said, we all saw it, right? That the Starship test flight was successful. That Starship's floating in the ocean. The heat shield worked. That's going to enable more flights of Starship now at a more accelerated rate. That paves the way for the V3 satellite, which enables much more bandwidth for the Starlink network, which then powers the whole direct-to-cell play. So, you had that piece of it. I mean, just the
[00:25:37] whole telecom aspect seemed very on track and they're very bullish about that. And then you've got the whole AI data center play. Now, on the data centers, I think what they said is that they expect it to go from 1.4 gigawatts of compute to about two by the end of the year. And Elon said that the spot price for computes in the $30 per watt range. So, you know, you do the math. A gigawatt is a billion watts. So, $30
[00:26:05] per watt means 30 to 50 billion per gigawatt. And I think they're at the high end of that range right now. So, when Elon says, "Look, we're going to end the year at 100 billion of ARR," all you have to believe is that they're at two gigawatts of compute running for $50 a watt to hit that. That doesn't include Starlink or the launch business or the Grok cursor piece or any of these things. So, I think that's why they're
[00:26:30] so optimistic. >> ways to win is what you're saying, Zach. There's multiple ways to win with this stock. >> I think Starlink's just an unbelievable juggernaut cash machine. If you look at the financials, their segment reports space, connectivity, and AI. And on the connectivity side, the Starlink side, it they generated $2.6 billion in adjusted EBITDA. You can kind of approximate that to be kind of operating cash flow.
[00:26:53] Space was kind of, you know, negative 200 million, so call it break even, and AI was plus 1.1 billion. But AI, to Brad's point, it's unclear whether the pricing they're getting on compute rental today is temporary and at a premium because of the lack of compute available in the market today, and people that need computer paying Elon a premium for that Cuban Q. So, I think there's a question mark where that goes.
[00:27:18] But the connectivity piece on Starlink, 4.3 billion in the quarter, and 2.6 billion in adjusted EBITDA. He's got 12 million subscribers, that's doubled year-over-year. $66 ARPU per month, uh what people are paying per month. And he grew 20% quarter over quarter. So, if you extrapolate this out, he's pretty close to being at a 24 million subscriber run rate on this multiple, and assuming this enterprise stuff,
[00:27:47] which is like airlines and other things scale, which they seem to be scaling with the consumer business, Starlink alone could be generating on the order of 40 billion dollars of revenue top line with a huge amount of that flowing to free cash. That could be a 30 billion dollar free cash flow within the year. That alone provides the cash flow to fund much of what what Elon's doing. And if you just put a 30X multiple on that,
[00:28:12] which I think you can because these subscription businesses are very high renewal rate, very low CAC, I think he could probably get a 30X just on the Starlink business. The Starlink business alone could be a trillion dollar market cap within 2 years, within 18 months, let's say. That I think funds all of the rest of this is kind of science projects and upside. So, I'm kind of making a bull case. It's crazy to me how well the
[00:28:36] Starlink business performs, and you can see it in AT&T and Verizon, HughesNet, ViaSat. I mean, these companies have been decimated. I used to have a HughesNet satellite dish on my Sonoma County ranch in order to get internet, that's what we had to use. It was like, you know, 200 bucks a month or something. >> Terrible, cuz those are high orbit, right? And they take forever to >> Terrible service. And that market got
[00:28:58] decimated by Starlink. And if he launches the handset thing, that subscriber growth is going to go right now he's adding 2 million subscribers on the consumer side a quarter. You could see that going to 4 to 5 million a quarter. You could actually see an acceleration in the consumer subscriptions. >> mobile subs 400 million mobile subs just in the United States. >> I think you can make you can make the bull case on Starlink alone. And then
[00:29:21] the rest of it is like, hey, is Elon going to do well with investing the excess capital that's spinning off of Starlink? How is Elon going to do with that money? Well, I don't know who else I give it to >> [laughter] >> to like, you know, do what he's doing with Starship and with AI compute and the terrafab. >> Oh my god, this is the science fiction uh story of Starlink County, Texas. >> how the US gets off of this dependency
[00:29:43] with Taiwan and China from semiconductors, if Elon takes this on his shoulders and he delivers what he's showing as a vision here today, this is going to be the greatest semiconductor fabrication site on planet Earth. >> Well, you know, I I would say something, you know, David, to your point. You know how many CEOs or founders would just take that Starlink business, which is such an exceptional business, m- trillion-dollar business going to 2