[00:13:37] easy to argue we are making great progress as a nation. We have made great progress as a nation. But if you look at NIH funding 1998 14 billion 2003 27 billion 2024 47 billion so the budget has more than tripled since 1998 but there has not been a proportional rise in breakthrough treatments coming out of that funding arguably people call it heir's law it's like Moore's law in reversed it's fallen roughly 80fold since 1950 50 in terms of
[00:14:14] outcomes per dollar spent. Uh and it habs every 9 years. So every 9 years we get half as efficient as we were at getting a return on the investment we're making. And I think this comes from your your report or it's it's it's published. So has science stagnated in America? What the heck is going on? >> I think generally our argument it has. And I think that's one example. I think the one that um a lot of Americans see
[00:14:40] and feel and notice quite obviously that I always like to talk about is uh the speed of flight. You know, uh in the 1990s you could you could fly on a Concord and and now you can't. We're flying slower than we were before, you know, 10 20 years ago. Um and and I think and I think we can do much better. And I think the question we always ask is like why why is this why is this happening? in the context of of of
[00:15:03] government funding. Um I think you know you could say one thing well look okay all the all the easy problems have already kind of been solved sort of low hanging fruit has been picked so it's it's harder to solve the next thing sure but I think but I think broadly the issue is we have not been innovative in any way on the way that we actually conduct the science the you know whether it's at NIH or at NSF or at any of our
[00:15:26] other science agencies the answer has always been let's just keep doing the same thing but add more money and hope that we get more outcomes proportion rather than asking the harder questions about are there other ways that we could be conducting the science, are there other types of scientists that could be getting the funding, could be getting the money, are there other institutions that could be getting the funding? And I
[00:15:46] think those are some of the questions that we start to bring up in in new golden age about how we should really be looking in the mirror and asking ourselves, are we spending money in the smartest and best ways? >> Why weren't we doing that along the way? And as you pour more money in, where does it go that makes the overall outcome less efficient? realize there's no incentive to do that. I think the incentive on the hill oftentimes is to
[00:16:07] just keep increasing budgets that ultimately flow down to particular districts or particular states. On the government side, there's no incentive to sort of check your homework and reveal that what you're doing is not actually working very well. It's always easy to like take a headline that you're increasing funding in XYZ domain. And the work is actually like quite hard. It's not easy to go through 47 billion
[00:16:28] dollars worth of funding and figure out, you know, what's working and what isn't. And I think that's what we try to introduce. I there's this concept of of meta science that's introduced in the report where we're setting up meta-cience units both at NSF and at NIH where we're actually going to start running experiments. Maybe there are different ways that we should be doing we should be doing funding and then we
[00:16:48] can analyze those and and then course correct and direct money towards places where innovation is actually occurring. So you're going to start doing your own experiments on how you're allocating money to see what has the highest return. >> Exactly. >> How do you measure that? >> Well, I think you start by figuring out what experiments you want to run. So I think, you know, take for example in the National Science Foundation, almost all
[00:17:07] the grants are done in a very standard typical format. There's a a set of peer reviewers or that do this merit-based review. It's maybe three or four people from a particular field. They take all the applications, they review them, and they select the ones as a group they believe are more most meritorious. You know, one could argue that, you know, it is merit-based, of course, but it also um um in many times incentivizes
[00:17:30] scientists to not necessarily propose crazy, bold, innovative, out of the box ideas. They tend to want to propose ones that are in the strike zone that the board, for example, will will all support. So one one thing that that we're going to be testing at at National Science Foundation is a concept called golden tickets where each of the evaluators are going to be given one or two or three golden tickets. And this
[00:17:51] was um initially actually tested in Denmark and some other places. And the theory is that you know the the um reviewer will then be able to unilaterally without the rest of the of the committee agreeing can make a selection of of a particular grant. So, you incentivize folks to to have more um more interesting grants. What I think what's also kind of cool about this concept is that um you're actually incentivizing better people to
[00:18:17] participate in the boards because they have a golden ticket now and they're more more likely to want to want to participate. So, we want to run that experiment and see what kind of what kind of uh um applications actually get approved and what kind of science gets done. So, it creates an incentive for scientists to propose wild and crazy ideas because the way scientists typically get a research grant, which is
[00:18:39] what they need to do because that's their living is literally get a grant, pay for your salary, pay for the salary of the people in your lab, is you go and submit an application for a grant that looks like the kind of thing that you think will get approved. And typically that's low risk because if something is likely to happen, the review board would say, "Okay, great. We're giving that grant because we feel confident that
[00:19:03] money is well spent." But the reality is in venture capital, which you and I know well, you're going to have one out of 10 things work. It's a power law. That thing's worth 100x. And you want to have nine out of 10 failures because that means you're taking a lot of risk. That's really how you push the envelope and discover new things and make big breakthroughs is you got to take risk, which means failure. >> Yeah. Exactly that. That's exactly
[00:19:23] right. And I think another another example of this is mo typically most NSF grants are roughly 18 months and that's just become kind of a a natural equilibrium that NSF has come to just given where the academic calendars are. But you know all research ideas don't require 18 months. Some of them require 3 months or 6 months. Some of them require 5 years. And I think another thing we're going to be testing and we
[00:19:45] proposed in in new golden age was this idea of different um durations of grants and allowing there to be opportunities for people to try fasttrack grants where they have an idea that can be done in six months and if it works then they can apply for a longer grant or you may have longerdated ideas that you would need three four even five years to work on that we would be evaluating. So at at its core at almost every turn what
[00:20:06] golden age tries to do is meet scientists where they are. There's some ideas that require 18 months. There are other ones that require 6 months and we want to make sure that there opportunities for them to at least propose their ideas for evaluation. >> Well, besides funding ideas, an alternative model is to fund individuals. >> This has been strongly advocated for as you and I both know like in the venture capital world, you find great
[00:20:28] entrepreneurs and they may have a crappy idea, but because they are who they are, >> they eventually make something amazing work. I was just reading again about Stuart Butterfield who started Slack and he was working on a totally different business. He had three million left. He told the investors, "Should I give the money back, but by the way, we built a communication tool that we use in our engineering team." And they're like,
[00:20:51] "No, go ahead, pivot. Make that the business." And then it turned into Slack >> and they sold it for $30 billion. And so the idea in in science may be the same, which is you find great people. Yes. You give them significant funding. You let them decide how to spend the money rather than have some overlord that scrutinizes every dollar they're spending and every action they're taking. Gets out of their way and says,
[00:21:14] "I trust that you're going to get somewhere. Here's a whole bunch of money, a lot more than you're asking for. Here's a whole lot of time. See you in 10 years. You'll figure something amazing out." >> So, I think but one sort of manifestation of that is is the way that um we think about some of these early career uh fellowships. So GRFPS are kind of the the the flagship fellowship you have at the National Science Foundation
[00:21:36] which um you know we give um roughly 2600 of these to to the smartest and best sort of aspiring PhDs in in in the country. And the idea there is you know we will give you this money to go pursue your your PhD but it's totally portable so you can take it anywhere you want. You can have universities compete for you um and ultimately you'll end up in in a place where you're comfortable and you can do your best research. Um and
[00:21:58] that's where again like rewarding the scientist and the individual and giving them an opportunity to to pursue their studies. >> And then the alternative is to go after big projects. The human genome project, Manhattan project, Apollo moon mission. >> China seems to be exceptionally good at this. In the central planning context, they have these big objectives they want to achieve and then they organize resources and allocate significant
[00:22:22] capital to achieve that objective. >> Yeah. >> Is that an alternative funding model? And if so, how do we organize and execute in a in a world where you got small labs, everyone's kind of working on their own, maybe people are even competing with each other for grants, you've got private industry doing their thing. >> Do we have the capacity as a nation to tackle big meaty projects >> that can really make incredible
[00:22:46] breakthroughs for humanity, >> but require significant capital and time and a long-term commitment? >> I think the short answer is yes. And I think what we advocate for and argue in in science new golden age is that we have lost our way on doing that. I think back to even what I mentioned earlier, I think most Americans sort of look back favorably on things like the Apollo mission. It kind of brought the country
[00:23:06] together. There was a discrete goal of something you were trying to accomplish and only the federal government could to sort of marshall the resources to do that. Um and we advocate for in golden ages. We have to return to that. Not that's the only thing we should do, but that should be one of the things we do along with everything else I just mentioned. and a couple examples of what we're doing in that domain. Now, I think
[00:23:24] the first is around space. The president very boldly sort of said in the first Trump administration that we're going to go back to the moon and we're almost there. I mean, we're going to have American boots back on the moon in 28. We said we're going to have a nuclear reactor in space by 28. We're going to have the first elements of a moon base by 2030. These are like big bold bets that take a decade to accomplish and
[00:23:42] we're going to we're going to do it. I think the second is around quantum computing. So, president signed an executive order just just last month launching a new national quantum initiative and one of the key goals there that we're trying to do is create a scientifically relevant quantum computer by 2028. This was a directive to the Department of Energy and we're going to be working very hard to make sure we can hit that pretty pretty crazy
[00:24:03] timeline. I mean, your camp, you know, we really want to get the fusion by 2035 and we're trying very hard to get the resources allocated at at DOE and combined with all the private sector investment to to get there. And I think the last one which is kind of our big flagship project for the whole administration is called the Genesis mission. And that is where we want to essentially double the scientific output
[00:24:23] of the United States by applying AI to our hardest scientific challenges and endeavors. We fundamentally believe that AI is going to be the biggest unlock to scientific discovery in the history of the world. Whether you're in material science, whether you're in chemistry, whether you're in math, whether you're in physics, you know, applying AI to your discipline is going to fundamentally change the way that you
[00:24:42] can do your science and accelerate the way that it's done. Um, and we launched an initiative in late last year to do that. And uh, and now we have the pretty much all of government sort of um, working towards that effort. So let me just break this down and try and understand the selection process then because some things you could argue can be funded by private industry and they will be because there's hundreds of
[00:25:04] billions of dollars of capital flowing into AI. There's a natural market incentive for individuals to use AI because it makes them more productive. Do you really need the government to fund things like quantum computing and AI and science when those things are getting hundreds of billions of dollars of private capital >> versus funding things that are like not going to be found in the private capital markets like you know deep space
[00:25:29] research, understanding the origins of the universe, pure physics, looking at these kind of more fundamental scientific breakthroughs that everyone kind of waves off. But we always find that in those fundamental understandings of our universe emerge some application years down the road that we weren't even thinking about. And how do we make those selections? >> Yeah. No, that's that's a great point. Something that we've advocated for quite
[00:25:49] aggressively is we have to return the the primary focus of government funded research on basic early stage pre-ompetitive R&D. This discovery science that is an area where you know the private sector is not incentivized to participate in and only the government can do that. At the same time, having these kind of big bold ideas only government can do is also very important for our enterprise. If you think about sort of the urgency to
[00:26:13] create a scientifically relevant quantum computer by 2028, you know, there's lots of activity in in in quantum going on throughout the private sector. But to them, it's for commercial applications. We want to create an instrument that can be used for scientific discovery that will pay huge dividends across all the ecosystem. And I think the AI for science I think the nuance there is we're not spending money on the the
[00:26:36] science that um the private sector is doing around AI. You know there is more computed more money going into AI than anything you could ever imagine today and the government's not trying to compete in that space. What it's trying to do is saying like look if you are doing basic research on all the things that you mentioned are so important you should be considering how AI is going to impact or accelerate the work that
[00:26:55] you're doing and we want to help you along in that journey. I I always felt like so much of the challenge with government is the complication. It's like entropy over time. You have all these different agencies, all these different groups all competing for budget and everything balloons. But like >> is there a rationale for consolidating so many of our agencies into a single science and technology agency and being
[00:27:21] better organized and prioritized and allocating capital to the most important things? It's it's a perennial debate and I think as I reflected on it for many years working on it, I honestly think it's a it's it's a feature and it's not a bug. And I think the alternative to an extreme is kind of what what uh what the PRC or what China is doing. And there you have sort of a a top-down directed um sort of single agency entity that
[00:27:49] that sets priorities and tries to execute. um they have been trying to essentially figure out how to do EUV lithography since since we put the export controls in 2019. No breakthrough has happened. There's nothing more important to their economy than solving that scientific problem and haven't been able to do that. So to me I feel like one of the most special features about our system is we do have people competing. This sort of free market
[00:28:11] approach to innovation is a is a huge feature of our ecosystem and one that I think is is an important reason why we have all these breakthroughs. >> So that's critical for our success fundamentally >> I think. So I think you know the fact that the DARPA people and the people working on national security related R&D are sitting at DO and not sitting at some science agency I think makes their work much better and more relevant to to