[00:26:13] create a scientifically relevant quantum computer by 2028, you know, there's lots of activity in in in quantum going on throughout the private sector. But to them, it's for commercial applications. We want to create an instrument that can be used for scientific discovery that will pay huge dividends across all the ecosystem. And I think the AI for science I think the nuance there is we're not spending money on the the
[00:26:36] science that um the private sector is doing around AI. You know there is more computed more money going into AI than anything you could ever imagine today and the government's not trying to compete in that space. What it's trying to do is saying like look if you are doing basic research on all the things that you mentioned are so important you should be considering how AI is going to impact or accelerate the work that
[00:26:55] you're doing and we want to help you along in that journey. I I always felt like so much of the challenge with government is the complication. It's like entropy over time. You have all these different agencies, all these different groups all competing for budget and everything balloons. But like >> is there a rationale for consolidating so many of our agencies into a single science and technology agency and being
[00:27:21] better organized and prioritized and allocating capital to the most important things? It's it's a perennial debate and I think as I reflected on it for many years working on it, I honestly think it's a it's it's a feature and it's not a bug. And I think the alternative to an extreme is kind of what what uh what the PRC or what China is doing. And there you have sort of a a top-down directed um sort of single agency entity that
[00:27:49] that sets priorities and tries to execute. um they have been trying to essentially figure out how to do EUV lithography since since we put the export controls in 2019. No breakthrough has happened. There's nothing more important to their economy than solving that scientific problem and haven't been able to do that. So to me I feel like one of the most special features about our system is we do have people competing. This sort of free market
[00:28:11] approach to innovation is a is a huge feature of our ecosystem and one that I think is is an important reason why we have all these breakthroughs. >> So that's critical for our success fundamentally >> I think. So I think you know the fact that the DARPA people and the people working on national security related R&D are sitting at DO and not sitting at some science agency I think makes their work much better and more relevant to to
[00:28:33] their mission. So before we get to China and talk about the great race that's underway across every domain, I don't talk to anyone in industry, government, or elsewhere that isn't acutely experiencing this kind of competitiveness with China at the moment. But I just want to talk about how we allocate capital because NIH, NSF, so much of the money flows either to a government agency or to a university. And it seems to me that there are
[00:29:05] probably four channels and you might have your own kind of rubric for this, but a government agency can take the money and go do research. >> A university can take the money and the lab is at the university and the university administers the lab and it's all done on campus at a university. And we can talk about the challenges with that which I think is really important to highlight. And then there's industry
[00:29:26] companies that have an economic incentive that can do research and have breakthroughs and get money from the government to help them. And then there's these kind of like independent organizations like Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Mayo Clinic. In Europe there's like Max Plonc. I mean there's these sorts of institutes that are not a government, not private industry. They're sort of like a nonprofit if you will. Y
[00:29:46] >> how do we think about allocating capital amongst those four channels? Why they're good, why they're not good, and how the balance needs to shift over time for us to get better ROI on our science dollars. >> Yeah. So, what you're bringing up here is kind of the one of the big reasons why we even wrote the golden age report. So, if you kind of rewind history back in in 1945, uh World War II was ending. Vanver Bush
[00:30:09] who was sort of the science adviser had my role for for FDR received a letter from the president that asked him you know what do we do with the science enterprise post World War II and Vanver Bush wrote his response that became science endless frontier which is kind of the the seinal work in the way that the US government should interface with science community and has sort of served as sort of the the north star for how we
[00:30:29] think about science funding for the last you know 70 years and what what Bush proposed was essentially the system that we have today where the government funds basic research Arch primarily at universities and it set up this enterprise where all these researchers sprung all this research kind of sprung up and kind of the post you know war era of it was able to do this great basic research and in parallel to that all the
[00:30:51] national labs that had helped sort of build a nuclear weapons of of World War II and so on sort of sprung up to do the intramural work that you were talking about. So there you had sort of two pieces. You had government and you had you had academia. And why that was so important in that era was at that time the vast majority of science funding was done by the federal government. Roughly 70% of R&D was paid for by the US
[00:31:10] government. About 30 was in the private sector. What has happened over the last 70 years was there's been this dramatic shift. Now roughly 70% of R&D is done by by the private sector and 30 is funded by the federal government. And as you mentioned correctly, new institutions have sprung up. things like philanthropies that fund focused research organizations, things like Howard Hughes, Max Plac Institute and so
[00:31:30] on. And the question now is is that model that that Bush pushed forward and and and promulgated and actually led to the the great discoveries of the last 50 years, is that still as relevant today as it was then? And our answer is it's not and we need a refresh. And that is why you wrote we wrote new golden age. And for us the first basic question we always ask ourselves is is the government spending on something that
[00:31:50] the private sector or others in the community like philanthropy are not incentivized to do. And that should be your your first your first cut at all points. And then you should ask yourself kind of what are the most important priorities for the United States. And I think that is something that sometimes it almost is like a tension with the science community. many sort of people believe that you know all discovery
[00:32:12] science is good and you should have no opinion about what's important and I think we would say like no we disagree like the government is a set of elected individuals um congress has a very strong opinion about where we should spend money and they direct science funding all the time through their appropriations and the executive branch should have some sort of thesis about what's important for the country I know
[00:32:29] we'll talk about China in a second but we have to win on things like on AI on quantum on nuclear on bio um and I think there we can there can be an overlay of kind of what are the biggest priorities for the US government and make sure that the gaps of places where you know the private sector and where philanthropy and others aren't able to fill the need the government can step in. >> Yeah. So what is going on with
[00:32:51] university funding? There's this administrative charge that universities have. You changed that. Maybe you can tell us a little bit about that. And what is this administration's view on universities taking capital that's been allocated for scientific research, getting an administrative fee, and where does that money get used in ways that maybe counter or that this administration views being counter? Because some people have made the case
[00:33:16] that this administration is being political with the changes that they're making and how they're allocating capital because they don't like the politics or the social views of university administrators. My view as as the as a science adviser is that we should meet the best scientists wherever they are. If they're at a university, we should fund them. If they're at a focused research organization, we should fund them. If they're on their own in
[00:33:40] their garage doing incredible work and can pass a mer a merit-based review panel, we should fund them in their garage. And to me, I think the idea that that we are open to funding scientists outside of universities, I think has been sort of like twisted by the academic community to believe that we're like somehow anti-academic scientists. We are pro-scientists and we don't care where they are. And I think that's a
[00:34:01] core tenant of golden age that we're going to be pushing for the next few years. >> Okay. So, let's talk about the great race with China. In the year 2000, China was spending $33 billion a year. 2021 670 billion. So, China increased spending by 19x. Over the same time period, the US increased spending by roughly 3x. There's a statistic I'll quote, but it's going to be hard to verify, but I've estimated it that about
[00:34:28] a decade ago, US published roughly twice as many papers and scientific journals as Chinese labs and academics and scientists did. And today, China's publishing roughly 50% more in nearly every domain with the exception of some life sciences. Mhm. >> China's kind of raced ahead. Frame for us the importance of the scientific race with China. Why does it matter? Why should people care? Isn't science for the benefit of humanity? Doesn't
[00:34:56] everyone benefit when breakthroughs are made, when discoveries are made? Why should Americans care? And why should the world care about where we are with respect to this kind of competitiveness and discovery with China? I think I think the Chinese realized a few like years ago that technological and scientific leadership is the most important foundational block to economic and national security. Everything that
[00:35:21] everything that we do as a country is sort of at some in some way in my opinion rooted in scientific and technological discovery. Um we see it with what's going on in semiconductors today. The breakthroughs that that we had in transformers and other technology led to the large language models of today. literally everything that's sort of powering our economy at its core was some sort of scientific discovery. I
[00:35:42] think to me to talk a little about kind of mentioned earlier, I think what what I I keep trying to trying to push is this idea that trying to centralize science has historically not led to the type of breakthroughs that you may want. And I think to me the the free market approach is that this extraordinarily vibrant um venture ecosystem that we have paired with the science funding that the that the government does paired
[00:36:07] with what industry is incentivized to do ultimately leads to these to these great discoveries. Um and I think to me I'm also very assured because we continue to be the place where everyone wants to come work, live and study. Everyone wants to build a business here. Everyone wants to learn at our universities and that is something that makes our our ecosystem so special and so unique and uh and that's why we have to like
[00:36:28] nurture it and and make sure to keep succeeding. >> You could argue that some of our biggest breakthroughs were centrally planned, managed and funded >> human genome project, Manhattan Project, Apollo and so on. But yeah, generally the competitiveness in the market, the market-based system yields greater risk takingaking, greater pushing of the envelope and ultimately greater outcome. And that's why I think the portfolio
[00:36:50] approach we talked about so important. I mean that's why we set these bold bets in quantum and space and fusion. But at the same time we've like opened the aperture for this sort of discovery science and free market approach to to commercialization. >> So where do you think China's getting things really right? You know when you advise the the White House the president and you know you're talking about policy
[00:37:10] >> when we look at China what do we see as being incredibly well done with respect to their policy? The playbook that they have used for a long time is essentially copying our IP, creating cheaper alternatives of that particular technology, dumping them in the United States, getting our businesses to go out of business and then and then squeezing us. And I think you've seen that with a wide variety of technologies over the
[00:37:33] years. And and I think it's something that we need to be very very cognizant of. I think the second area which you know they've taken action on and or or threatened action on is around some of our critical minerals which we realize are a very important piece of our larger sort of like tech and science ecosystem if you will supply chain. Um so those those are things that that we have to constantly be be thinking about and
[00:37:52] preparing ourselves to be able to to to be uh to be independent. >> But given the number of papers they're publishing arguably they're credible they're peer- reviewviewed let's just say they are making breakthroughs and they are getting ahead of us in many cases. What's helping them there? So the the IP theft, dumping on the market, that's industrial trade policy type stuff. But on this core basis of like discovery, are they not getting ahead
[00:38:14] and and what are they doing? Well, are they just funding more? Cuz I would argue by some estimates, so again, they're spending roughly on par with us. >> Mhm. >> But by some estimates, they get 2x for every dollar they put in. By some estimates, 4x. By some estimates 10x >> because their labor costs are lower. They have much more automation. Their supply chain costs are lower. Obviously the standards are different there. Yeah.
[00:38:36] In how things operate. So on a dollar fordollar basis they're they're way overspending relative to us in terms of generating output and it's showing up in the papers that are publishing. Is it just a function of spending more or are there other things that we could be doing differently? >> Look, I I I think to me what we could be doing a lot more of is encouraging more Americans to enter the STEM fields. This
[00:38:57] is something that has been on my mind for for many many years and a statistic that I I've tracked for a long time is is sort of the the percentage of USborn, you know, PhD recipients in computer science, for example. If you if you rewind the clock, you know, 30 years, I think it was, you know, 70% were American and 30% were were foreign. And now it's now it's inverted. Um, and I think to us as a country, you know, I
[00:39:20] believe that having a a a a STEM literate workforce is one of the most important superpowers we could have as a country. and we're doing everything we can to kind of find ways to encourage our younger students to continue to pursue these degrees. And to me, I mean, back to this thing, I think another thing that we have to take a lot more seriously is, and what I've observed in our science ecosystem is, you know, our
[00:39:41] young scientists, the ones that have just finishing up their PhD and are starting their academic careers, you know, these are one of the toughest jobs you can imagine. You're paid almost nothing. You know, you're in a university, you're toiling away trying to do trying to do research. Here's the most underpaid people you could imagine for what they're doing for our country. And to us, I think we have to return our
[00:40:00] scientific enterprise to reward them, to give them opportunities to work on their best ideas and to allow them to to excel. And I think that's what that's what we're focused on. >> So, we train a lot of foreign students, we bring them in, they get PhDs here. Why don't we let them stay more? And so what is the im immigration policy that also bolsters the points you made earlier about getting the right people in the field, getting the right people
[00:40:23] into scientific research? We've got a lot of Chinese students that come here, get a degree, get a PhD, and then we don't have a program for actively retaining that talent. They go back and they work in the Chinese labs or Chinese industry or, you know, in other countries. And China is now starting to attract scientists from India, from Europe. Why aren't we doing that? Because we don't have the homegrown talent pool in science. Shouldn't we be
[00:40:50] more active in recruiting entertainment? >> I have to I think for us, I think you got to do two things. I think one, you got to make sure that we're we're encouraging young Americans to to go into these STEM fields and and for those who do want to stay, allow them to sort of pursue legal pathways to to stay here. >> So, is that policy being heard by the administration? Is it accepted or is it in conflict with a more America first
[00:41:11] policy which is looking looking out for Americans first, making sure jobs are for Americans before? >> Well, I don't think any says in conflict with the policy. I mean, I think I think we we as basics like before we even start thinking about anyone else like we have to get our house in order about how we can get more Americans to to pursue this stuff. Again, these numbers around around computer science should be very