[00:00:00] Our next guest needs no introduction. Tony Robbins. You have to figure it out. Like I always say, if you want to take the island, you burn the boats. I got a chance to work with the president of the United States. Uh Clinton, and he calls me one day, true story, and says, &quot;Tony, they're going to impeach me in the morning.&quot; How many of you ever achieved a goal you worked your guts out for and then achieved it and went, &quot;Is this all
[00:00:19] there is?&quot; Horrific. Horrible. It's great to uh meet you. Thank you. You're bigger in person. You're a big man. Compared to what? A normal human. Okay. They're large. They're like see your hands. Yeah. There you go. There you go. It's like you're a big guy. Um you're glad he just had his hand. It could have got really interesting. You're true. True. I mean, maybe not if he was in the cold plunge. You never
[00:00:51] know. Okay, enough. When I told people you were coming Yes. I got like a range of responses and your poor assistant chief of staff is in a total panic about all the questions I'm going to ask you. I don't care. Yes, I know you don't care. But I got the range of the infomercial guy. He has had a profound impact on my life from very significant friends of mine who we know in common who have been to your seminars
[00:01:19] to he's kind of a guru self-help. It's all kind of like snake oil. I want to know where this all started because my perception of you was the late night when I was growing up in the 80s, the infomercials. And then I looked into it and I started looking into the self-help space. You actually were inspired by a self-help guru who you went to work for in the I think the late '7s. Yeah. Jim Ran. Yeah. Jim Ran. And
[00:01:47] um you have been on this for a while and a lot of the techniques that you studied are very real there. These are real techniques in psychology and when I looked at them and I was looking at the history of it, you know, you look at Ralph Waldo, Emerson, uh self-reliance, uh Freud, Young, uh NLP, natural uh neural linguistic programming, and even Elron Hubard who took it in a different direction. A lot of these self-help
[00:02:15] things. Are you getting to a question? I am. I am. He wants to show you that he spent two hours on Wikipedia before we started. I went down the rabbit hole. Wikipedia. Who is Tony Robbins and why did you get addicted to all this self-help stuff and then it's kind of been packaged in a couple different ways in your life. So I'm curious this sort of arc of how you got into this and then what you do for people now because my
[00:02:39] friend Mark Pinkis and then uh we have Beni off friend of the show my friend Kevin Rose these guys and then civilians I one of my wife's friends goes and runs over coals with you in Hawaii and she she's a makeup artist and she loves it and she can't shut up about it. So tell me how you got into self-help, how you packaged it, and why you decided to be a coach and do these seminars instead of starting a a cult or religion.
[00:03:08] I got unpack that. Yes, please. Well, people know me at different stages. I was on television every 30 minutes, 24 hours a day for about 12 years during infomercial days. And I hated infomercials, but there was no real vehicle, right, you could get out to mass number of people other than writing a book. And most people don't read. So, but it started for me. I grew up in a pretty tough environment. I was born in
[00:03:26] downtown LA. I had four different fathers. I had a very powerful mom who I love dearly. I've since passed. Um, beautiful soul. I created a lot of my success to her. But also, when she drank alcohol and took prescription drugs, she was a different person, very violent. I have a younger brother, younger sister. So, I really became a practical psychologist in my youth, learning how to manage her emotions and her states
[00:03:47] and how to really get things done. And um I think probably the thing that changed my life the most though was when I was 11 years old, my fourth father, and he got fired from his job. And it was Thanksgiving. We had no money and no food. When I say no food, we had crackers and peanut butter, but you know, not a Thanksgiving dinner, which kind of depressing. And my parents were fighting and, you know, saying things
[00:04:05] you can never take back. And I was trying to make my brother and sister not hear it. And my life was changed cuz someone came to the door. I opened a big guy, two bags of groceries in his hand and an un a frozen turkey uncooked in a pan on the ground. He'd obviously carried and sat down. He said, &quot;Is your father here?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Just one moment.&quot; And I thought it was going to be the most joyous moment, but my father
[00:04:24] was angry because he felt humiliated. He looked at it as charity and said, &quot;We don't accept that.&quot; And long story short, the man said, &quot;I'm the delivery guy.&quot; And my dad had to take the food. And that day changed my life because my father left shortly thereafter. And I really loved him. He's the one who adopted me and uh I carry his name. But it also I our life is determined, I think, by the meanings we give to
[00:04:45] things. You know, is this the end or the beginning? Is this person dissing me? Are they coaching me? Are they loving on me? Whatever you decide controls your life. And I was fortunate enough at that point that I came up with a different meaning. We grew up in an environment I thought was a wealthy community. It was very low middle class to say the least. And we were on the other side of the railroad tracks. And it looked like
[00:05:02] nobody cared and nobody, my father kept saying no one cares about anybody else. But this was new evidence for me. It was like if a stranger who doesn't even want credit is delivering my family Thanksgiving dinner, then strangers do care and I need to care about strangers. And so I promised myself that at 11 years old that someday I'd do this back and feed at least two families. And then you know I grew up and I started
[00:05:23] studying patterns. I started seeing that everything is a pattern. You know all of you know as if you're an investor, if you're a great CEO, uh if you're a great dancer, musician, it's really because you recognize patterns. Things are no longer chaos for you. You see what's going on. So you have the power of anticipation. And then the second skill I think I try to teach this to my kids and grandkids. I have five kids and five
[00:05:43] grandkids. I have a 50-year-old daughter and thanks to co a four-year-old daughter and uh and I'm saying what do I need them to know? The world is changing so fast. They have to be able to recognize patterns. Step two, utilize them. That's where the power is. And if you do it long enough, you play someone else's music long enough, you know, some of you starts to come through and you start to be a creator of patterns.
[00:06:02] That's when you become masterful. Those are the people we know in investing. You know their names or in business or anything else. And so once I learned that, I realized there's nothing wrong with people. We just get caught up in patterns and we do them so long we think they're us. And it's hard to change you. Easy to change a pattern. And I got really good at it. And so I changed my body. I changed my finances. People
[00:06:18] started coming to me. And then gradually it became my full-time focus. And I began to have people calling me as I started producing results. And I'd get these athletes that would call like Serena Williams. And and she's melting down and she can't get on the court cuz her sister just died. And she's lost recently and she's, you know, she's got she's gunshy. And I got to right now turn her around and there's no net. So
[00:06:40] fortunately, I've been able to do that over and over again. And it built my career and brought me to a lot of sports teams and now I own some of those sports teams, pieces of them. And um and but then I also started looking, okay, I started working with people that are depressed and suicidal and knock on wood. I don't know. Did any of you see Tony Robbins? I'm not your guru on Netflix. Anybody here? So if you haven't
[00:06:58] seen it, you can see Thank you. You see the work. But we follow up 10 years later and you see the people are still in great shape because we're rewiring the way the brain works. It's not a bunch of pump up. I do use energy because without energy, nothing changes. But you can't just have energy. you need strategy. And so as I did that, you know, I give you a perfect example. I'm 31 years old and career starting to
[00:07:16] sore. And then I I got a chance to work with the president of the United States, uh, Clinton, and he calls me one day, true story, and says, &quot;Tony, they're going to impeach me in the morning. What should I do?&quot; And I'm 31 years old, and the president's asked me, I said, &quot;Could you call me sooner?&quot; You know, this is like tomorrow morning. But because there's no net, my brain figured it out. You have
[00:07:36] to figure it out. It's like I always say, if you want to take the island, you burn the boats. And then I got good at Sorry, Tony. What What did you tell him? Pardon me. What did you tell him? I can't tell you that. Okay. That's that's a private thing I'll tell if you want to know. I don't share unless somebody shares. But what I will tell you is I got good at studying businesses and became an entrepreneur. And so now I have 114 companies in ma
[00:07:57] massively different industries, but we do about $9 billion a little bit more in revenue. And I love the diversity. So I get to work with athletes. I get the team you formerly have ownership in. have a little piece of Peter Gerber is one of my dearest friends as you probably know and so I've gotten to work with you know some of the greatest athletes in the world some of the greatest musicians some of the greatest
[00:08:14] entertainers and the greatest entrepreneurs and I don't go there just to to teach them I go to learn can I ask you a societal question for a second okay so you've been in some ways diagnosing what ails people for let's say 40 years now yes every society has its own pothole and maybe you know teenag teenagers and young people today suffer from a very different thing that maybe Jason, myself and Freeberg did at our ages. Can you
[00:08:43] diagnose the level of happiness and sadness and satisfaction, dissatisfaction that this current young generation has relative to other younger generations and where it's different and where it's the same? I don't think I'm the only one that can see it. I think expectations, you know, I always tell people expectations are what make you really unhappy. And we can't not have any obviously, but trade your expectations for appreciation, your
[00:09:07] life changes. But our expectations now are controlled more by social media, especially that generation, right? So they're seeing people that are incredibly wealthy and thinking that's who I should be and feeling like I don't have anything. I mean, what turned people in the Soviet Union against Soviet Union when they got access to seeing how the Westerners lived? Then things changed. When they didn't see it, it was okay. So today we compare
[00:09:27] ourselves to others and in ways that are not real because like young girls that go on social media, you've seen all the studies, I'm sure, they get depressed because they're comparing to images that aren't even real. It's fake. Expectations minus reality equals happiness. And what I really say is progress equals happiness. Like if you are growing, if you are going at something, even if you're not there yet and you are got to lose 50 pounds and
[00:09:47] you lose the first five or 10 or you're in a relationship and you finally face what has to be dealt with or you face your finances, there's a momentum that happens and an aliveness. I mean, ask all of you here and those of you in the room, how many of you ever achieved a goal you worked your guts out for and then achieved it and went, is this all there is? Who's had this experience? I'm curious. Right? That's a horrific
[00:10:05] moment, right? Horrible. It's worse than failure cuz most of us simply fail. We get back up and figure it out. Right? completely. But try this one for size. How many of you achieved a goal that you worked your guts out for and you're really proud of it and you were euphoric? Who's had one of those? My show hands some noise out there if you give it to me later. Right. So the question is, how long did that good
[00:10:23] feeling last? Did it last 6 years? No. A year. Euphoria. Six months. Six minutes. 10 minutes. Six weeks. Yeah. Six minutes. Yeah. For most people, it's been six minutes and about six weeks I found. Yeah. And so why is that? Because we're meant to grow in life. You grow or you die. the whole universe. They have my laws. You grow or you die. And when you grow, you have something to give. And unless you're giving something
[00:10:44] beyond yourself, if it's always a trade, you don't have any esteem for yourself. You don't have any inner pride. But when you have something to give, that's when life feels more meaningful. Yeah. Jonathan Heights, uh, book from years ago, uh, the happiness hypothesis. Yes. A great study in there on economic progress being the best predictor of happiness. It wasn't the absolute dollars you were earning each year that
[00:11:08] flatlined after a certain baseline standard of living. Beyond that standard of living once you were able to get food and housing and all the things you need to survive and thrive. What predicted happiness was how much things changed from year to year. The rate of change that he's absolutely right in other studies. But there are new studies that add another dynamic. It's also affected by who is in your environment. And today
[00:11:29] who's in your environment because the social media is is not real. And so now we're in a place where people evaluate not by their circle of friends they hang out with. That certainly plays a role, but even more so. And I've always tell people if you want to grow, get on the field with people tfold of where you are and where you if you want to play tennis and you're good at tennis and you're fortunate enough to get sit down with
[00:11:48] somebody who's world class like a Serena Williams friend of mine. If you go out and do that, you you know you're terrible. But just to get on the court with her, you got to get great. If you play against somebody you're better than, it's only a matter of time before your skills go down as well. So I think our society people have an expectation today. I also my original teacher Jim Ran a personal development speaker more
[00:12:07] of a business philosopher he I went to one time when I was really young just beginning with him and I said all my fathers are good humans. Why were we always broke? And I said, and I look at this, you know, billionaire hedge fund person, you know, and he made a billion dollars last year. And this school teacher only made in those days like $40,000. And he said, Tony, that's fair. But here's what I can suggest to you.
[00:12:30] We're all equal as souls, but we're not equal in the marketplace. And he said, if you go to McDonald's and you get a you don't get a living wage, you're not supposed to. It's a first job. Anyone can do that job and learn it in an hour. But he said, &quot;If you find a way to add more value to people,&quot; because he said to me, &quot;Can someone make twice as much money in the same time?&quot; I said, 'Yeah,
[00:12:48] five times, 10, 100 times. He said, 'Yeah.' He said, 'The guy that made a billion dollars produced a 42% return. Did you know that? Those are people's futures. That was people's college educations. That was their retirements. He is worth it. You must become assessed on doing more for others than anybody else does. And so that's been my moniker for all my companies. And it's been the core. And I think that's what's missing
[00:13:08] to answer your question. It's like what what is life going to give me versus the Kennedy days of don't ask what you're going to do. How do you help a larger swath of society then unwind the addiction to SSRIs, the kind of doom loop, doom scrolling, like just the general malaise. Yes. That then manifests in all these weird ways. The inability to talk to each other, the, you know, cut people off because they voted one way versus another. All this
[00:13:34] stuff just seems so cuz all of the social media, the mobile, the social, everything's not going away. It's here. It's permeated and it's not just going to disappear overnight. But if you study like the the youngest generation as they've come forward, they're getting off of even they obviously they got off Facebook a long time ago. Their parents do that stuff, right? But they're not even on Instagram now. They're going to
[00:13:54] these individual places that are more intimate. They're wanting not everybody to know what they're doing there. The pendulum throws itself so extreme and then we correct. It's what we just experienced politically. It's the same thing. So, it's it's easy to rationalize that. But I'll tell you, you know, Stanford came to me during the the COVID time, the period. And they came to me because two of their professors had gone
[00:14:14] through my date with Destiny Center. It's a 5-day total immersion where you rewire yourself. Decide what you want. I don't tell you what your values are, how you going to live your life. And both of them had been on medication. Both were clinically depressed. And they came back and he said, &quot;They have no symptoms. They're off all their medication. How does this happen?&quot; So, we had this long conversation. And he said, &quot;Well, do you