[00:35:58] and I do that. And I do that you Ray Dal is a good friend and you know learning to meditate was something I thought I'd never do in my life. But I've developed a simpler pattern I developed for myself and meditation I start my days with. I have to take care of my body and when I'm doing those things and I also when everybody else goes to bed that's when I get my thinking time and so from midnight till 3 or 4 for me is usually
[00:36:18] my time to Are you like a three hour sleeper like a four hour? No, like four and a half to five. Not ideal five is ideal for me but uh I can certainly do that. That's always been that way. That's sort of you know not when I was a kid but once I discovered my passion for you know you've all heard the phrase right the two most important days of your life the day you're born the day you discover what you're born for. And
[00:36:36] when I discovered that, the energy in my body changed radically. Do you think about um I'm curious, uh mortality a lot. I know you're into the stem cells. You're you know, you're we're all getting to a certain age and we're all going to the same destination and uh looking back on your life and then finding meaning in that. I know some people our age start thinking about legacy. Does that like matter to you? And are you thinking about, hey,
[00:37:03] how many years do I have left? I never thought of that till about 64. I'm 65 now. Uh I never did. So just in the last year you started thinking about it last year. Was there something that caused that to happen? My daughter I think having my daughter come along. I had her at 61. You had a daughter at 61. Yeah. She's four years old. Four years old. Wow. Yeah. So I've got a 50-year-old daughter and a Got it. I was confused by
[00:37:24] the math when you said all that and I was asking the question cuz you know in your brain it's all questions and answers. I told my wife originally I said I'm going to have a kid by 50. I said I I don't want to be there at my kids's high school reunion or excuse me graduation and I'm you know 70 years old and I'll be 80 when I do that piece but I look at people like Peter or Steve Win like I have a whole group of friends that are
[00:37:44] in their 80s that are Peter's doing more today than he did when I when he was 45. Yeah. And so I look at that and say but but you got to take care of your body. And so and there are things you don't predict. I my eye may look a little weird to some of you and may not notice, but uh about 3 weeks ago, no five weeks ago, I starting to feel irritation in my bladder and hard time breathing. It was very weird and I'm very, you know, I
[00:38:05] have a really intense way. I do hyperaric oxygen cryotherapy. So, it's really weird for me not to have that. And um so I went and got tested at found life where we have our stuff and they found I had this massive amount of arsenic in my body like a zero to five was they measure it. 50 would be off the charts. I was 3:45 and it was so bad the first thing he said is you got to watch your eyes and 5 days later my uh retina
[00:38:29] detached which can make you blind. So I went in for emergency surgery here in Miami, one of the best doctors out here and normally you have to take the surgery and then you have to lie on your stomach for a week and not get up looking down because they put this gas behind the retina. Oh my god. But fortunately I I Bobby Kennedy I put him together with Trump. He's a good friend. I called him. He got me with top guys at
[00:38:48] two different hospitals. They said, &quot;This is the guy. We got it all together.&quot; And he said, &quot;I think this is not as effective. It's not like 90% effect. It's like 70, but if it works, you can.&quot; He goes, &quot;I can't imagine you lying on your stomach for seven straight days and nights, not moving.&quot; I said, &quot;I can't either.&quot; And he said, &quot;If I do this, it's like a belt around your eye,
[00:39:07] and you'll be able to sit up at least.&quot; So, that was only three and a half weeks ago. And so, this eye is still having some pieces. So, of course, that made me pay attention. But yesterday I operate I found out from Fountain Life there is a new approach to your immune system because all this is coming out because my immune system was affected by these metals. By the way all of you have if you could give yourself a gift you
[00:39:27] should get tested for metals. There are so many metals in our food. There are all these great blood tests you can do with fountain other services and you can do them every six months for $500. And our doctors never told them to do this. They just would like be like oh yeah your blood works good. But when you think you're aging, often what it is is poisons in your body, metals in your body. It's so crazy. So there I want
[00:39:48] everybody to know about this. There's a name man named Dr. Xiao and I've I've seen everything. I wrote Life Force 150 of the best regenerative doctors in the world know about I know of them all. I've interviewed them all. This to me is like the number one thing to go to. So he has created this. I've done stem cells. I healed my shoulder with stem cells. I didn't have to go through surgery. But he does this what he calls
[00:40:08] re-education of your immune system. my beta cells were through the floor from all these metals. So now all the other things your body would fight off are coming through, right? And now my whole body was going in reaction. So I said, &quot;There's an answer. I'm going to detox.&quot; And I'm proud to tell you and they told me it could take two years. It took five weeks and I've got all the metals down to normal levels at least now, which I'm
[00:40:27] so thrilled about. But then what I'm going to do for my immune system? So Dr. Zho, he's been around. He he discovered the stem cells that are in the blood, not MSE cells, but these blood cells. And he's worked 25 years to do it. I've never seen anything like it in my life. He does plasma feresis. You probably have heard of it where they take blood out and they put it through a filter and it's can be very useful. I've had that
[00:40:47] before. But what he does, he takes your blood through and he takes your white blood cells, your immune system out overnight. He puts it through a filter with cord stem cells. You don't actually put someone else's cord stem cells in you. It's the intelligence that gets transferred and then it puts it back in your body and then they spread and change your immune system back 20 years. That sounds like a ridiculous uh
[00:41:08] promotion. This guy's not a promoter at all and it's all science. But I watched I what got me to go there is my um one of the people my Helen Dr. Helen from our place at Fountain Life showed me she said Tony I think this is what you got to do. She's on this ALS patient. ALS is usually you know it's a it's a death sentence and this guy's shaking and he can't take his hands above here. He does the process. Three weeks later he's
[00:41:29] doing this. No exaggeration. They do type 1 diabetes and turn it around. any autoimmune diseases there and most of aging is really the breakdown of the immune system. That's why we're seeing so many cancers after COVID and the injections. A lot of young people, these turbo cancers are happening because their immune systems have been harmed. And so now everything starts to shake up. When people think about aging, it's
[00:41:49] really immune system. So the type of people are going with alipcia where they have no hair. This one I met her and she got a full and she's 70 years old, got all her hair back. It's in New Jersey and he's already at sta he's on an IND. So he's on stage three though. has gone through his stage three. He's doing his submittal and we're going to bring it to fountain life here because there's nothing like I've seen it. But there are
[00:42:08] things like that like if you stay well and take care of yourself now over the next 5 to 10 years, the kinds of transformations are going to allow us to be in a position where every year you could be a year younger at least maintain where you are. I mean it's not it's not science fiction. Freeberg talks about this all the time on the show like we're like this very interesting generation. We're 10 years behind you or
[00:42:29] maybe 15 in some cases. Um but or even 20 actually I think um but the we're this generation that we actually might get to benefit from some of these incredible technological advancements. You absolutely will. Ladies and gentlemen, Tony Robbins. Thank you so much. Bring it in. Thanks for tuning in to this amazing episode we had with Tony Robbins. And thank you Tony Robbins for joining us. Our new bestie here at Allin. If you
[00:42:55] want to come to our next event, it's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles. fourth year for All-In Summit. Go to allin.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team, which won the race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their new crypto exchange here
[00:43:23] in the US. If you love All-In, go check them out. And a special thanks to our friends at Circle. They are the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar redeemable one for one for USD. It's built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap between the digital
[00:43:49] economy and outdated financial reality. Go check out USDC for all your stable coin needs. And special thanks to my friends including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. We'll let your winners ride. Rainman David. We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you. Queen of [Music] your winners. Besties are gone.
[00:44:29] That is my dog taking notice in your driveways. Oh man, my habitasher will meet me up. We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release somehow. [Music] We need to get back. [Music] I'm going all in.