[00:12:30] We're all equal as souls, but we're not equal in the marketplace. And he said, if you go to McDonald's and you get a you don't get a living wage, you're not supposed to. It's a first job. Anyone can do that job and learn it in an hour. But he said, &quot;If you find a way to add more value to people,&quot; because he said to me, &quot;Can someone make twice as much money in the same time?&quot; I said, 'Yeah,
[00:12:48] five times, 10, 100 times. He said, 'Yeah.' He said, 'The guy that made a billion dollars produced a 42% return. Did you know that? Those are people's futures. That was people's college educations. That was their retirements. He is worth it. You must become assessed on doing more for others than anybody else does. And so that's been my moniker for all my companies. And it's been the core. And I think that's what's missing
[00:13:08] to answer your question. It's like what what is life going to give me versus the Kennedy days of don't ask what you're going to do. How do you help a larger swath of society then unwind the addiction to SSRIs, the kind of doom loop, doom scrolling, like just the general malaise. Yes. That then manifests in all these weird ways. The inability to talk to each other, the, you know, cut people off because they voted one way versus another. All this
[00:13:34] stuff just seems so cuz all of the social media, the mobile, the social, everything's not going away. It's here. It's permeated and it's not just going to disappear overnight. But if you study like the the youngest generation as they've come forward, they're getting off of even they obviously they got off Facebook a long time ago. Their parents do that stuff, right? But they're not even on Instagram now. They're going to
[00:13:54] these individual places that are more intimate. They're wanting not everybody to know what they're doing there. The pendulum throws itself so extreme and then we correct. It's what we just experienced politically. It's the same thing. So, it's it's easy to rationalize that. But I'll tell you, you know, Stanford came to me during the the COVID time, the period. And they came to me because two of their professors had gone
[00:14:14] through my date with Destiny Center. It's a 5-day total immersion where you rewire yourself. Decide what you want. I don't tell you what your values are, how you going to live your life. And both of them had been on medication. Both were clinically depressed. And they came back and he said, &quot;They have no symptoms. They're off all their medication. How does this happen?&quot; So, we had this long conversation. And he said, &quot;Well, do you
[00:14:32] have some data?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, I have millions of graduates, you know, and stories.&quot; He goes, &quot;No, no, like scientific data.&quot; I said, &quot;No, but I'd be open to doing a study.&quot; So during co Oh, wow. to longitudinally follow the people that have Yes. And so he took but they put people in. They did their own study. Cuz I said, &quot;If we're going to do this, tell me what the standards, what
[00:14:48] do the meta studies show?&quot; Like how many people get well through traditional approaches of drugs and therapy? And you know, I don't know if you're aware of it. It's crazy. 60% of the people who use drugs or therapy to try and get out of depression make zero improvement. 60%. 40% improve he shared with me but the average improvement is 50%. Most are on drugs the rest of their life and he goes I said you should be able to do
[00:15:08] that with a placebo and he laughed and said by me it's true in fact and he said yeah sort of and I said well I know it sounds like hubris or arrogance but it's not just done this so long I said we will destroy that. I said what's the best study you've ever done? They said it was John Hopkins now. I think it's been about eight years ago. And they gave people psilocybin, magic mushrooms and and cognitive therapy for a month. I
[00:15:30] said, &quot;Well, something had to change that kind of biochemical shift, right?&quot; And it was the greatest up until that point, the greatest result they'd ever seen in psychiatry. At the end of 6 weeks, 53% of the people had no symptoms whatsoever of depression. Nothing like it in history. So I said, &quot;That's my target to beat.&quot; And I said, again, might sound arrogant, but I said, &quot;Enough experience. I will bet we do it.
[00:15:50] you set up the study with all the comparison groups and he did and they ran the study and I'm proud to tell you that at the end of 6 weeks 97% of the people had no symptoms whatsoever 7% had symptoms but they had lessened massively but 17% had suicidal ideiation coming in and coming out none did they followed up a year later 72% reduction in negative emotions a year after I've not seen them 51% increase in positive emotions so now
[00:16:14] we're doing it on business they did a one-year study with 1500 people they just finished it and you know In business, you know, IBIDA is engagement, right? The most engaged employees and companies are there. And we've all seen that drop. If you're not familiar with it, we usually go three levels. You measure engagement, disengagement, which would be now we call it quiet quitting, and then active disengagement. That's
[00:16:33] hard quitting where they're in the company, but trying to harm it. The largest drop in history since COVID has happened on engagement, and the largest increase in active disengagement. They took the group in 750 of each group, test group versus normal group. in four excuse me in five days they found a month later the engagement levels returned far above what they were precoid but more importantly without any
[00:16:55] more interaction with me because they changed their wiring over the next year and they followed them for the full year they they continue to increase their engagement a lot of what you're doing is and has its roots in what we call today CBT cognitive behavioral therapy attribution theory how you interpret what people are saying to you but you also need a pause when you do have uh a reaction coming to you and just pausing
[00:17:17] for a second and then making sure you understand and checking the reality of that. These are techniques that you actually have in your programs. Yes, they do. But you if you also don't change the physiology of the person, you have limited range. I'll give you an example. They sent a group and followed me for I think I think maybe explaining the attribution theory would be really good for the audience and why that's so
[00:17:36] powerful. Well, I I think if I may just limited time, I think you it's more important to understand physical change. Okay. Because your biochemical changes will last. If I ask you all where you were on 911, no matter what country you're in, if you're not in America, everyone knows where they were. They what they saw who was there, right? There's a biochemical change. If I asked you where on 811, you don't have a clue.
[00:17:55] So, what they did is they followed me and they saw what happened to my body on stage 12 hours a day, four days in a row. They had me wear this huge device and they took my blood and they took my saliva for hormones every hour on the hour. And they'd also done this with Tom Brady. The group has also done this with uh the Tampa Bay uh Lightning who've won multiple times. And what they found is what they call championship
[00:18:15] biochemistry. When Tom Brady's down by, you know, 10 points since the fourth quarter and he comes back to win, how does that happen? His biochemistry has an explosion of testosterone which makes you remember everything. That's why it retained and it puts you in a place of total focus. But with testosterone usually also have the stress hormone of cortisol. In Tom's body and he goes there, the cortisol drops off the cliff.
[00:18:39] It's unheard of. They call it champship. And same thing happens Tampa. same happens every time I get on stage not sitting like this but doing what we do what's more important is they then decide to measure my audience and they did it first before co and then I started doing seminars digitally all around the world like we have 1.3 million people for a 4-day seminar I usually did 15 20,000 person stadiums for 4 days and now that's the size we're
[00:19:01] able to grow to and scale and we figure how to make it work well when they measured them in 15 different countries it looks like it looks like music they come in and we suddenly start to go up together and make the same response, same find of focus and the same cortisol drop and that's why they believe it's lost. Same thing happens with engagement, right? It's a biochemical. So I do believe in all the elements of
[00:19:23] cognitive therapy and neuringuistic program there's so many but without the unique thing that they saw I did and that tried to explain how it lasted is the biochemical shift. So pairing CBT with this physical activity, this intensity, yes, that is the secret. That makes total sense. Otherwise, it won't last, right? And you know, you can make it last by repetition, right? By, you know, affirming. This is why when we go
[00:19:44] on a retreat and they organize these corny corporate retreats, it's not corny that they want to do a thrilling experience and go white water rafting to help people bond because people's lives are so sedentary. They don't experience this. And that's why all you lunatics are jumping in ice cold bats every year. Yes. That's why you feel alive. You must have a very high like excitement level. Like you got to be in a helicopter and
[00:20:06] you got to jump in cold water to be to feel alive at this point. I've been doing the 18 years in the last 10 or 12 years. Everybody does it now. But yes. No, but it's also I'm a biohacker. I have to be able to get up and do imagine I I burn 11,500 calories 11,300 calories on average in a day. I jump a thousand times. I'm in a stadium. I'm not just standing there. If you're standing there, you'll be bored out of your mind.
[00:20:27] I engage or I'm running up the walls. I'm there with everybody. I could strike at any moment. That's what keeps people fully alive. But when you do that, I'm jumping 1,000 times. I weigh 290 lbs. Every time you come down, they explain it's four times your body weight. So, it's a million pounds, you know, of pressure. And I'm doing that I've been doing that since I was, you know, basically 19 years old. This is my 48th
[00:20:49] year doing it. If you had been uh diagnosed by like the industrial psychological psychiatry complex these days, would they just have said you were like a kid with ADHD or something? What do you think? I don't know what they'd come up with. I'm a freak as far as they're concerned. I'm sure the scale. But you know what's nice now is I have virtually every psychological leader out of maybe a dozen of them have endorsed
[00:21:11] what we do. In fact, now therapists in various states in the United States can actually study my work, see the results because there's very few places you can see an intervention and then follow up and see what the result was a year later and they get credits for that. If you circle back to when Tom Cruz said, hey, listen, you know, exercise, diet, uh, meditation, and he and he kind of laid out there's other ways to deal with
[00:21:30] depression and everybody would like what does he know? These doctors know better. And now the doctors have all come back to his position which is let's focus on your diet, let's focus on your exercise, let's focus on your sleep. Yes. And let's focus on your meditation. Those four things will do more to you than any pill. Correct. In your estimation, 100%. Yet we have 60% of people in the country on a pill in some of these. And most of
[00:21:52] them have more than one. Anytime you combine three pills, you cannot predict the outcome in your body. And what about Tony? Then the move away from SSRIs now to psychedelics and psilocide. Like there's all these it's all these curalls. Yes. Well, um I'm sure you saw the cover of Newsweek a couple years ago. It talked about was on the cover and it said SSRIs don't work. They don't. They've been proven not to work
[00:22:12] by the meta studies, but we're still given to millions of people. And the side effects are depression, sometimes suicidal. It's insane. So looking for something else to rewire your brain is why people are starting to either mildly dose or heavily dose or go on these pieces. But the problem there, there's nothing wrong with it. Anybody wants to do whatever they want to do. I'm not approved about how to do it. But I like
[00:22:31] the idea of being able to take charge and make conscious decisions. But I've had that experience. I went and investigated that myself directly. went down, you know, into South America, had an experience. It was quite profound, but it's like, what are you going to do with it? Some people it just becomes another way to party, you know, and that then you're not going to get any results that really matter. If you're doing it
[00:22:47] with a therapist, with intentionality, with a guide like I was I was completely against it and I met Tony Bosses um from uh was it Columbia or New York University and I said, you know, I'm just not into drugs. You know, I'm not a freak, but people around me overuse them and abuse them. So, I I've always just not done that. And he said, ' Tony, it's not a drug because a drug you take at it one, you know, you got to take it every
[00:23:10] day. He said this, I'll show you. And he showed me videos. He said, 'These are people that, he was working with people that have been diagnosed with cancer, terminal cancer, right? And he said, &quot;Watch this.&quot; He said, &quot;I'm going to show you in advance. This woman is an atheist. She's not like a California atheist, like there might be some God in the trees or something. She's a New York atheist. There is no God.&quot; Yeah. Right.
[00:23:29] And he shows me the video. You know, they they do two different sessions. They don't know which one's going to be it. and she comes out at the end of the the session where she had the experience and she said I experienced God and and about 96% of the people say it's one of the three most profound experiences of their life. it was for me. Um, and I used to I can handle anything, but the one thing I was weak at, I'll be honest
[00:23:49] with you, was like somebody dying cuz I had handled that within myself. And uh, so that's why I went to do it. And I I don't have a fear of dying. I don't want I don't want to die, but I don't have the fear of it before. And if you went through deep trauma in your childhood, psychedelics can, I'm told, take you right to that place and you will have to confront it. And that's why doing it in a safe environment, especially if you're
[00:24:13] a child of trauma with an alcoholic father, which I had as well, very challenging. Uh, I don't recommend going to just a guru or somebody like when I went down in South America only because there are a lot of people that take advantage of women down there in this because once you're in that state, it's, you know, you're really, you don't know what's you're in a world, a different world. So I really say you want to there
[00:24:33] are people now there's a big push at UCLA they're they're they're doing it Stanford they're all studying it now and I think using it in that area make a difference but my point is you get the same results without it and I'm not suggesting people have to do it one way. Yeah. Tony can I build on Freeberg's question which is happiness is sort of a rate of change problem. Yes. You're incredibly successful. You're incredibly
[00:24:54] famous. You have a great family. You're really fabulously wealthy. There's all this stuff. How do you frame your mind in terms of this rate of change? So you're seeing progress like do you do that for yourself? Like yes of course I think I think men and women it's a generalization but I think they evaluate life differently. I think most men have grown up in a hierarchal world some women do as well and they have an idea
[00:25:17] of where they think they should be at a certain time and most people are not there at times where if you're fortunate enough you're ahead ahead of the game. I got to the point probably 10 years ago where I had done all these things. I didn't have any less enthusiasm, but I didn't have anything that like what am I going to do now? And and I'd done philanthropy my whole life cuz, you know, I got fed, so I started feeding
[00:25:35] people. I did it at 17. I fed two families and then four and I got hooked on it. And then I got my little company involved. And then we got to two million people. And then 2 million from me and 2 million from, you know, the general public. And then when I was writing Money Master the Game, I wrote interviewed Ray Dalia, Carl and Warren Buffett, all the best in the business. And I I saw at the same time I'm interviewing these billionaires that the
[00:25:57] government cut food stamps now. It's called the SNAP program. Yeah. By six I think it was $6 billion. It means every family that needs food would have to go out with one week of food unless people like us step up. So I called my foundation. I said, &quot;How many people have I fed in my lifetime?&quot; Because I didn't know the number. They said 42 million. I was like really gratified by that. But I also was saying like, &quot;What