[00:24:13] a child of trauma with an alcoholic father, which I had as well, very challenging. Uh, I don't recommend going to just a guru or somebody like when I went down in South America only because there are a lot of people that take advantage of women down there in this because once you're in that state, it's, you know, you're really, you don't know what's you're in a world, a different world. So I really say you want to there
[00:24:33] are people now there's a big push at UCLA they're they're they're doing it Stanford they're all studying it now and I think using it in that area make a difference but my point is you get the same results without it and I'm not suggesting people have to do it one way. Yeah. Tony can I build on Freeberg's question which is happiness is sort of a rate of change problem. Yes. You're incredibly successful. You're incredibly
[00:24:54] famous. You have a great family. You're really fabulously wealthy. There's all this stuff. How do you frame your mind in terms of this rate of change? So you're seeing progress like do you do that for yourself? Like yes of course I think I think men and women it's a generalization but I think they evaluate life differently. I think most men have grown up in a hierarchal world some women do as well and they have an idea
[00:25:17] of where they think they should be at a certain time and most people are not there at times where if you're fortunate enough you're ahead ahead of the game. I got to the point probably 10 years ago where I had done all these things. I didn't have any less enthusiasm, but I didn't have anything that like what am I going to do now? And and I'd done philanthropy my whole life cuz, you know, I got fed, so I started feeding
[00:25:35] people. I did it at 17. I fed two families and then four and I got hooked on it. And then I got my little company involved. And then we got to two million people. And then 2 million from me and 2 million from, you know, the general public. And then when I was writing Money Master the Game, I wrote interviewed Ray Dalia, Carl and Warren Buffett, all the best in the business. And I I saw at the same time I'm interviewing these billionaires that the
[00:25:57] government cut food stamps now. It's called the SNAP program. Yeah. By six I think it was $6 billion. It means every family that needs food would have to go out with one week of food unless people like us step up. So I called my foundation. I said, &quot;How many people have I fed in my lifetime?&quot; Because I didn't know the number. They said 42 million. I was like really gratified by that. But I also was saying like, &quot;What
[00:26:15] if I did what I did in a whole lifetime in a year? What if I fed 50 million people in a year?&quot; And I was like, &quot;What if I fed a 100 million? What about that 100 million for 10 straight years and fed a billion people in the United States, richest country in the world, but we have about 20 million people that don't know where the next meal is going to come from. And I hooked up with Feeding America to deliver the food. And
[00:26:33] I'm proud to say we did it in 8 years. But the problem hasn't gone away. And so now I hooked up with uh Governor Beasley when I was in the UAE. He introduced me to Governor Beasley. NBZ did. And he explained to me that he ran the World Food Program. Yes. He he won the Nobel Prize for that. NBZ said, &quot;I want you to meet the only guy I know that's needed more people than you.&quot; I said, &quot;He's being a lot more than I am at the UN.&quot;
[00:26:54] But we sat down and we became friends. And now I said to him, he normally 80 million people a year are at risk of dying. This year it's 385 million because of the war in Ukraine. It is the bread basket for most of Africa and there are 11 countries near famine right now. And you don't read about in the news because you're reading about something on somebody's knuckles, right? And um and I said to him, well, and then
[00:27:14] there's not enough fertilizer because Russia's been cut off and it made the price triple and farmers can't afford it. So I said, we need a period of time to get to sustainability. 10 years, let's say. How many meals would we need in the meantime just to close the gap? He said, Tony, 50, 60, maybe 70 billion meals. So I said, why don't we do a 100red billion meals challenge? I said, I did a billion meals. I did it supposed
[00:27:35] to be in 10 years. 100 million years, 100 million meals a year. I wasn't a billionaire when I started. I've been blessed obviously, but there's got to be 99 other people like me who care or businesses or countries. And so we began that process 2 and a half years ago. In the beginning, it did not go well, but I'm proud to tell you in the first year and a half, we got 30 billion meals. I'll be announcing at the UN coming up
[00:27:56] this fall. U I can't tell you the numbers supposed to wait till then, but more than double that. So we're well beyond that. But right now in Duffer, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate your I appreciate your applause. But I think also we want sustainability and any of you that want to donate, I'll match. I do it at Feeding America. You donate a million dollars, I'll match it. You can
[00:28:18] put a $10 in, I'll match it. But now Darur, you know, people, you know, we get these war zones now. And there are people right now surrounded by those rebels. A million people right now. And no one's funding anything because no one can get they'll shoot the plane out of this guy. So, we just Governor Beasley and I have just teamed up and we have found this group, this military group that's retired that want to do good
[00:28:40] works. They've done it for a while and we're buying the C130s. I'm donating the first million meals for the week. I got two people to match me. So, we have three weeks worth of food. We're going to fly in and airdrop all that food. I'm going to UAE because I know the leaders there. We're going to Saudi Arabia. I'm going to say, &quot;You can't shoot this down. This is not political. There's no weapons. It's just food.&quot; And we're
[00:28:58] going to prove it works. And then we have a tour June 7th through the 15th with all those leaders to get them to hopefully step up. Kar's already stepped up and said they're going to give 30 million and we're going to save those lives. So people will die otherwise, you know, and everybody just gives up. I'm not a person who gives up. But I just want to say that to answer your question for anybody, I think we
[00:29:16] all need moonshots. It's like we all need something to go for. Yeah. You've ever achieved a goal and then there's a drop because we're made to keep growing. And so when I did that, then I was like, &quot;Okay, my wife and I, we we found some kids that were trafficked. We couldn't believe it.&quot; And I said, &quot;I want to save as many people in the city I grew.&quot; And it was 30,000 people. So now we're
[00:29:36] 76,000 kids we saved. I worked some of the best organizations. Helped make a movie some of you may have seen uh last year that was or two years ago um that was all about this process. And it and it it blew up on July 4th. You know, the sound of Is it hard for you to frame your mind on a goal that's measured differently than the thing that you were successful at? What do you mean? Oh, my goal is to make money. And then you make
[00:30:00] a ton of money and then you're like, now my goal is to do something philanthropic. It's a totally different measurement. And what happens, as you said, even if you're motivated by it, a lot of the people around you may be very unmotivated by it and almost pull you back from it. Well, I'll tell you, I've done this my whole life. I had um I Peter Goober's our mutual friend, you know, Peter. Peter, one time I was
[00:30:22] arguing or not arguing, sharing with him my frustration that people weren't helping these children or helping, you know, trafficking because it because it sounds so bad. You don't want to hear about it. And Peter really was a student. He said, Tony, he said, you taught me this. People do things for different reasons. Some people donate because they want their name on the wall. Some people donate because they're
[00:30:38] guilty because they inherited their money. But some people donate because they really care. You don't care. Just meet their needs. And so I found like I had a friend that was on a plane the other day. I've known him 44 years and person's reading my book. Uh this is my book I did interviewed 150 people who are the top regenerative scientists in the world, right? So it's a big book 700 page and this guy's marking it and he's
[00:30:58] you know just going crazy. And my friend loves to see how people respond. He says, &quot;So what do you think of that book?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Oh my god, stem cells and this and that or you can't believe what you can do with your body and change.&quot; And he goes, &quot;What do you think of the author?&quot; He goes, &quot;Oh, he seems like such a nice guy. He took nothing from all his books. He donated
[00:31:11] it all. He feeds all these people.&quot; Well, but he is rich, he said. So, it must be easy for him. And my buddy turned to him and said, &quot;What if I told you I'd known Tony for 44 years? I knew him when he had $10 in his pocket. Didn't know he's going to give his next meal. And he gave five it to a guy in the street. And that he taught me if I won't give a dollar, you know, dime out of a dollar. I'm never going to give a
[00:31:30] hundred million out of a billion.&quot; And you start now. You start now and your life is different. So, I invite people to find a moonshot. And mine started with feeding two families and then it becomes four and then it becomes larger. But now my economics, you know, are obviously extraordinary. But what drives me now is all the things I'm doing and I need tens of millions of dollars for what I donate. Let me ask you a question
[00:31:52] on that, which is how do you think about the relationship between focus and effectiveness. A lot of folks and my experience has been the more we try and do the more the breadth of the things we try and do, the harder it is to do any one thing exceptionally well and have these outsized returns. And there's a nonlinear relationship between focus and outcome. The more you concentrate your time, energy, capital on one thing, it
[00:32:17] becomes nonlinear how well that thing does when you're an effective person. You have movie projects, book projects, speaking engagements, businesses, ownership and sports teams, people calling you. How do you think about focusing your time and the effectiveness that you can then have in the things that you choose to do? I believe in concentration of power, but I don't have the limitation of thinking it has to be
[00:32:38] every moment on just one thing. So, I actually built a system for myself when I was really young and I had my my second business. I wasn't doing well at my first one, so I started a second one. Very brilliant. It's like saying I'm now terrible parents. Let me have another kid. That's what most people do as entrepreneurs. So, but I knew I needed to take control of my time. So, I took these time management courses and they,
[00:32:56] you know, you have a little book in those days and your A, B, and C priorities. And I did it for about two weeks. And then after a while, I was like, there's no way I can do everything on my list. And I was frustrated. Who can relate to this by the way in your own life? Right? And so I was like I said, every time management system does the same thing. I don't know if it's digital or not. You start with the same
[00:33:12] question. Now thinking is nothing but the process of asking and answering questions. Now as I said that you're going to think and you're ask yourself is that true or not? And you're going to evaluate it through your references. And that's a question isn't it? We could take you all way down the line but for simple sake the question of what I need to do is the wrong question. So I will tell you this when President Clinton M
[00:33:31] said what should I do? And I taught myself something different. I said, I need to control my focus. Concentrate it. But I also need to have purpose behind it because, you know, purpose is stronger than object. I'm going to make a billion dollars for what though. The purpose, that's where the energy in the fuel is. And then I need a map. I called it RPM, like increasing your RPMs to get from here to there. And you know the
[00:33:52] result. Then I ask what do I want? What's the result measurable? Why am I doing it? And then what's the map, the massive action plan? And then I go find the 20% of things will give me 80% of the progress. And then I put things in categories. I have companies in categories. I have my family life in a category. My body's in a category. And every week I predetermine what are the most important outcomes for the week.
[00:34:11] But when you do that, you are able to have that concentration of power. And I where I am, I'm there 1 million%. And I I found that skill of concentration doesn't have to be just one thing. If like in your businesses, you get great leaders. Obviously, I couldn't do all these things myself. Um, but when I've got great, you know, when you got partners that are extraordinary in the health area, you know, I created this
[00:34:32] company called Fountain Life and I got Peter Diamandis as my partner. He's a genius. I I partnered uh with Sam Nazarian, some of you know from SPS, right? He created Mandreon and SLS hotels and we're building 15 extraordinary luxury hotels around the world where you can go and be scan and everything there. Now I love it. Even though if it's too much, you love it. And I have time for my daughter, which I adore, right? She's
[00:34:53] four years old. I'm I'm saying it in slightly in justest cuz you are hyperefficient. You got this crazy energy level. There is a theory that sometimes be people become a little too addicted to success and to you know improving themselves. Do you ever stop and just like enjoy the the day and not try to improve everything? You ever stop and just like laugh and maybe enjoy some sushi and punk golf with your friends
[00:35:19] and play some cards or does everything have to be the 78th millionth meal and person you saved? No. Well, there's a part of me that's that way for sure. Really? What do you do? No, I there's a part of me the first part that's as crazy as you describe, but there's another part of me that I value love and relationship above all else. Got it. So, like, you know, Peter's one of my dearest friends for 35 years. He was
[00:35:39] down here in Miami. Called me up and we had everything booked. I moved everything and we spent two hours just staying out together cuz I love him dearly. He's 8 82 83 years old right now. I don't know a better human being. He's my priority. My daughter's my priority. Um my outcomes change when there's something more important, right? That's there. But I've also learned that I have to be able to turn the switch off
[00:35:58] and I do that. And I do that you Ray Dal is a good friend and you know learning to meditate was something I thought I'd never do in my life. But I've developed a simpler pattern I developed for myself and meditation I start my days with. I have to take care of my body and when I'm doing those things and I also when everybody else goes to bed that's when I get my thinking time and so from midnight till 3 or 4 for me is usually
[00:36:18] my time to Are you like a three hour sleeper like a four hour? No, like four and a half to five. Not ideal five is ideal for me but uh I can certainly do that. That's always been that way. That's sort of you know not when I was a kid but once I discovered my passion for you know you've all heard the phrase right the two most important days of your life the day you're born the day you discover what you're born for. And
[00:36:36] when I discovered that, the energy in my body changed radically. Do you think about um I'm curious, uh mortality a lot. I know you're into the stem cells. You're you know, you're we're all getting to a certain age and we're all going to the same destination and uh looking back on your life and then finding meaning in that. I know some people our age start thinking about legacy. Does that like matter to you? And are you thinking about, hey,
[00:37:03] how many years do I have left? I never thought of that till about 64. I'm 65 now. Uh I never did. So just in the last year you started thinking about it last year. Was there something that caused that to happen? My daughter I think having my daughter come along. I had her at 61. You had a daughter at 61. Yeah. She's four years old. Four years old. Wow. Yeah. So I've got a 50-year-old daughter and a Got it. I was confused by
[00:37:24] the math when you said all that and I was asking the question cuz you know in your brain it's all questions and answers. I told my wife originally I said I'm going to have a kid by 50. I said I I don't want to be there at my kids's high school reunion or excuse me graduation and I'm you know 70 years old and I'll be 80 when I do that piece but I look at people like Peter or Steve Win like I have a whole group of friends that are
[00:37:44] in their 80s that are Peter's doing more today than he did when I when he was 45. Yeah. And so I look at that and say but but you got to take care of your body. And so and there are things you don't predict. I my eye may look a little weird to some of you and may not notice, but uh about 3 weeks ago, no five weeks ago, I starting to feel irritation in my bladder and hard time breathing. It was very weird and I'm very, you know, I