[00:00:05] We're sitting here at the Google Plex with the CEO of Alphabet, Sundar. Thanks for being here. Great to have you here, David. Look forward to it. Is Google at risk of being truly disrupted from AI? Recently, we're testing it in labs. This whole new dedicated AI experience called AI mode coming to search. Open AI has SAM, XAI has Elon, Meta has Zuck, Microsoft has Satcha. Are you willing to kind of share your perspectives on those
[00:00:30] four competitors? I think maybe only one of them has invited me to a dance, not the others. Biggest regret. Look, there are acquisitions. We debated hard came close. Just give me one name or get in trouble. Maybe Netflix. We just leaned into the user experience and over time we figured out monetization to follow. It's like one of the original principles of Google. Follow the user. All will follow. There you go. I'm going all in. All right,
[00:00:58] besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. Oh, he crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. That was great. What's going on? I'm really excited for this conversation. You and I started working at Google on the same day in 2004. I didn't quite realize that. Same
[00:01:23] nougler class. We had the the hats on that same week on the Friday all hands. I'm now a podcaster. You've done a little bit differently. You're more than you're more than a podcaster, but you're very good at podcasting. Well, I appreciate it. I think I respect the other stuff you've done as well. So, no, I appreciate it. But in your tenure at Google, you ran Chrome, Chrome OS Drive, Google Maps, and it's been 10 years now
[00:01:49] since you've been the CEO here at Google Now, Alphabet. Amazing. And congratulations. Under your tenure as CEO, the stock has gone up by 4 and a.5x to a$2 trillion market cap today. You've grown revenue from 20 billion a quarter to nearly hundred billion a quarter. It's been a really like incredible run to see someone that kind of started as a a PM and you know grew your way into this incredible role. So congrats. How
[00:02:14] have you liked the job? No, look, I mean, uh, I love building products and in some ways, you know, Google was really set up, I think the founders set up this kind of a deep computer science approach and like you take that and apply it to build things which can impact people on a day-to-day basis. And so, you know, it's that kind of a product and uh technical culture which, you know, is is the essence of the company. So, I love doing that. And
[00:02:45] you know there's not a single week which goes by where I I feel like I don't get to do that. So those are the parts I really enjoy. But obviously you know running a company of this scale where you impact uh so many people I think it's a privilege. So enjoyed every part of it. You're at a pivotal moment in the company's history today. Have you read the innovators dilemma? Uh you know my I I I'm obviously very very familiar with
[00:03:07] the concept. I don't think I've read the book actually. But but you know, it's one of those things which is so much in the ether. You think you know it, you know. I say it in justest because that's the talk of the town, the talk on Wall Street, the talk in Silicon Valley. Is Google getting disrupted in this moment. AI seems to create a fundamentally different paradigm for human computer interaction. Consumers are asking AI
[00:03:30] questions through chat interfaces. They're getting complete answers. They're engaging with AI systems in a way that they traditionally didn't do with the classical search interface. Is Google at risk of being truly disrupted from AI. Is the core search business, which the ad revenue and search is about a $200 billion run rate out of 360 billion of your total revenue, most of your profits. And it seems like Google's
[00:03:54] in a really challenging quandry where if you disrupt yourselves too quickly, all of that revenue can go away. It can be really impactful. So is Google being disrupted by AI at this moment or is Google leading? It's a good framework, good question to talk about. Uh you know I've definitely uh you know for almost a decade uh you know one of the first things I did was to think of the company as AI first. It was very clear to us. Uh
[00:04:18] we had Google brain underway in 2012. We acquired deep mind in 2014. 2015 when I became the CEO I said look the technology is really evolving. The reason we were excited to be approach our work as AI first uh is because we really felt that AI is what will drive the biggest progress in search. And so you know I I think even the last couple of years I viewed this as an extraordinary opportunity for search. I think if you look at how much
[00:04:48] information means to people I think they're going to each person is going to have access to information in a way they've never had before. So it feels very far from a zero sum construct to me and we are seeing it empirically when people are using search. Obviously there are a couple of major things uh we've done with search. Uh you know transformers drove some of the biggest innovations in search with BERT and mom
[00:05:13] dramatically improved search quality. Um we we launched AI overviews about a year ago. It's now being used by over one and a half billion users uh in over 150 countries. It's expanding the types of queries people can type in and we see it empirically the nature of queries is expanded. So there are whole new use cases coming into search. We find for queries where we trigger AI overviews. Uh you know we see query growth and the
[00:05:44] growth continues over time. You know getting the feedback from AI overviews. We are you know we we've recently we're testing it in labs. There's a whole new dedicated AI experience called AI mode coming to search. We'll speak about it more at Google IO. And in AI mode, you can have a full-on AI experience in in search including follow on conversational queries and we're bringing our cutting edge models there.
[00:06:10] Uh where the models are actually working to answer your questions using search as a real native tool, right? And and there the queries people are typing in queries like literally long paragraphs, right? the average query length is somewhere two to three times is what we see in uh search as it existed uh two years ago. So we are seeing people respond. Uh you know search is always from the outside people look at it and say search all
[00:06:36] kind of looks easy to do. The craft of search is very hard. Over two decades I think we've had a real northstar of understanding what users want in search. And you know we you know you've been here we kind of a very metrics driven company. We kind of know what works. Uh users are are our northstar and and empirically we see that people are engaging more and using the product more. Right. So uh so all that uh to
[00:07:02] your question about innovators dilemma I think the dilemma only exists if you treat it as a dilemma right like you know so for me all along in technology you have these massive uh periods of innovation and you lean into it as hard as you can it's the only way to do it you know when mobile came everyone was like well you know it's like you're not going to have the real estate like how will ads work all that stuff uh you know
[00:07:28] mobile was a transition which ended ended up working great. I can give great examples, right? Like Tik Tok has come in. YouTube has thrived since the moment Tik Tok has come in, right? And uh it was a whole new format. We we uh did shorts when we launched shorts. Shorts absolutely didn't monetize anywhere near long form, but we just leaned into the user experience and over time and we figured out monetization to follow. So
[00:07:57] you know to me you know you don't think about it as a dilemma like you know because users you have to innovate to stay ahead and you kind of lean in that direction. It's like one of the original principles of Google follow the user all else will follow. There you go. And I think the the Google is dead disruptor narrative has as you point out been kind of repeated a number of times. Today people are pointing specifically and I
[00:08:21] appreciate your points about there's new search experiences coming. The search experience, it sounds like, is going to evolve. As people look at standalone apps, they compare Gemini as a standalone app to chat GPT to the meta experience. The stats that came out in the recent court testimony that had some data revealed from March. I don't know where the data came from, but it said the uh Gemini AI app had 350 million
[00:08:45] monthly users compared to Chat GPT at 600 and Meta AI at 500. Is that the wrong way to think about it? that the Gemini standalone app isn't the future or the AI bet that Google's making, but it sounds like there's going to be much more of a kind of timed out integration into how the search experience evolves and what happens to Gemini, you know, in search, you know, maybe the most widely used GI product today might be search
[00:09:08] with AI overviews, right? You know, uh people people are using it intensely. Obviously, uh we have a standalone Gemini app. Um I think I think uh we are making progress there. Particularly with the introduction of Gemini 2.5 Pro, we've seen a real uh uptick in engagement uh and usage growth uh in the product. We have a lot more to come. Just in the last few weeks, we've shipped deep research and updated canvas
[00:09:38] audio overviews. You can now go and generate v do video generation with V2 straight in the Gemini app uh on Android phones with Gemini live you know you can screen share it can talk to what's on your screen so the the you know there's a lot coming that way and you know users are responding um look chat GPD is obviously had phenomenal success um you know but but I think it's still early days and you know we are definitely seeing traction seeing
[00:10:09] growth to me what matters is if you innovate are users responding and using it more and that seems to be the case so it's in our hands to continue innovating right I think it's a fiercely competitive moment but I would say across our products people are coming and using and consuming information across search using the Gemini model increasingly in YouTube in the Gemini app and so on so I think I think it's a
[00:10:35] much broader view we have if I were to think about the unit economics of Google's business. There's a cost to serve a search query and there's revenue per search query, ad revenue per search query. How is that number changing or how will that change in this kind of evolution in search towards more of an AI interface? Because I've got to assume that to serve an AI driven query is much more expensive than to serve a search
[00:11:03] query. Look, this is something I think you know people are really worried about uh two years ago, but you I've always felt to the extent that something is about the cost of serving it, Google with its infrastructure, I' I'd wager on that, right? And you know, on our chances to do that better than pretty much anyone else. And you know, we have actually seen like, you know, for a given query, the cost to serve that
[00:11:29] query is fallen dramatically in a 18-month time frame. What is probably more of a constraint is latency I would say. So it's less the cost per query. I think our ability to serve the experience at the right latency. You know search has been near instant. So how do you uh think about that frontier has been more of a question. Uh the cost per query is not what I think will end up uh you know I think I think we'll be
[00:11:55] able to we've done the transition well. That's that's not a primary driver of how it'll impact things. Yeah. And do you have a point of view on ad revenue per AI query? You know, we already with AI overviews um you know, we we are at the baseline of uh uh you know, it's the same as without AI overviews. And so we we've reached that stage in uh so but from there we can improve, right? And I think uh you I've always felt uh you
[00:12:23] know the reason ads have worked well in search is because commercial information is also information people in when they have that intent are looking for that most relevant information. So I don't see any reason why AI, you know, just from a first principal standpoint, why won't AI do a better job there as well, right? And and and and so I think I think, you know, I think we're comfortable that we can work the
[00:12:47] transition through. Some of it may take time, but all indicators are that we'll be able to do it well over time. Over time, but you know, it's already, you know, already AI overviews when we show ads. We've kind of reached the baseline. Do you feel that pressure on Wall Street and the board and like what's the tension that you feel as a leader in trying to manage this transition on the product on the revenue model for an
[00:13:12] organization of this scale? I don't know how many leaders have done it successfully in the history of business. Where do you feel the tension? Where do you feel the pressure? And how much leeway are you being given by the founders and the board to do what's needed here? Two things. I mean the main it's a moment of acceleration right so if anything um the good thing about these moments is you don't even have time a lot of times to think about you
[00:13:34] know some of those questions you are uh I think I think a lot about making sure we have the best models we are we pushing the frontier as a company uh and I think the last few months have shown the breadth and range of what we are doing uh you know uh we are there and we have to continue to stay there so for me you know you you think and you worry a lot more about execution from within that's all you know are we are we
[00:13:59] executing are we moving fast are we innovating and I think you know over the past 12 months I think we've really picked up pace as a company and uh you know to to meet the moment so that's where I do spend a lot of time look as a as a CEO one of the first things I did in 2015 in addition to being AI first was to really bet big on you know we had great products like YouTube we had workspace and cloud but really turning
[00:14:25] them into robust businesses, right? As well as great products. Last year, we exited a combination of YouTube and cloud at $110 billion. I think, you know, people don't internalize that Google is one of the largest enterprise software companies in the world now. Uh and and so look, I think and the largest media company, you know, in in some ways, right? And you know, definitely we're doing a podcast. I think we're the
[00:14:49] largest podcasting service in the world. And so you know so I I I feel like you know as a company we are set up well for the first time you have this crosscutting technology you know to to our earlier point thinking of us as a deep computer science company what better technology than AI which horizontally can impact all aspects of our business search YouTube cloud and the other new things we are doing so it feels like an exciting time so not a lot
[00:15:17] of what you know we've continued to do well in search we are doing well in these other businesses. Um, and so to me it feels like, you know, one of the biggest opportunities ahead as a company too. I think the next decade ahead looks to me as exciting as the past decade. So as I think about my time at Google right below us in the garage and his team were building these super secret shipping container data centers. They had these like data center
[00:15:46] in a box that you could ship anywhere as long as you had access to water and power. could connect to the internet and you could scale data center capacity all over the world. That was 20 years ago. Um it's always seemed to me that one of Google's core and not well understood advantages was its infrastructure advantage. Something that Google's invested in to its core from the beginning. Can you tell me a little bit
[00:16:10] about where you view Google's infrastructure advantage playing out in the AI competitive landscape today? How does it translate into cost, speed, product quality and where do you guys think about investing the 70 billion of capex this year in the chip layer in the networking the data center? We can unpack both right like where our capex is going but on your first part right like one of the ways you know we look at the parto frontier
[00:16:43] of performance and cost Google literally is on the parto frontier so we deliver the best models at the most cost effective price point right like you know and our flash series of models are a real workhorse uh in the industry right and and part of why we are able to do that uh is because you know we train and serve our models on our infrastructure including TPUs right and we are in our seventh generation of TPUs
[00:17:13] and uh we built our first version in 2017 um I remember talking about it at Google IO probably people didn't pay attention to it because like you know why are you building a specific machine learning accelerated chip uh look it plays out everywhere to your earlier question on cost per query in search the reason we feel comfortable we can serve it at that scale scale uh because we are constantly innovating through each generation including chips