[00:14:49] largest podcasting service in the world. And so you know so I I I feel like you know as a company we are set up well for the first time you have this crosscutting technology you know to to our earlier point thinking of us as a deep computer science company what better technology than AI which horizontally can impact all aspects of our business search YouTube cloud and the other new things we are doing so it feels like an exciting time so not a lot
[00:15:17] of what you know we've continued to do well in search we are doing well in these other businesses. Um, and so to me it feels like, you know, one of the biggest opportunities ahead as a company too. I think the next decade ahead looks to me as exciting as the past decade. So as I think about my time at Google right below us in the garage and his team were building these super secret shipping container data centers. They had these like data center
[00:15:46] in a box that you could ship anywhere as long as you had access to water and power. could connect to the internet and you could scale data center capacity all over the world. That was 20 years ago. Um it's always seemed to me that one of Google's core and not well understood advantages was its infrastructure advantage. Something that Google's invested in to its core from the beginning. Can you tell me a little bit
[00:16:10] about where you view Google's infrastructure advantage playing out in the AI competitive landscape today? How does it translate into cost, speed, product quality and where do you guys think about investing the 70 billion of capex this year in the chip layer in the networking the data center? We can unpack both right like where our capex is going but on your first part right like one of the ways you know we look at the parto frontier
[00:16:43] of performance and cost Google literally is on the parto frontier so we deliver the best models at the most cost effective price point right like you know and our flash series of models are a real workhorse uh in the industry right and and part of why we are able to do that uh is because you know we train and serve our models on our infrastructure including TPUs right and we are in our seventh generation of TPUs
[00:17:13] and uh we built our first version in 2017 um I remember talking about it at Google IO probably people didn't pay attention to it because like you know why are you building a specific machine learning accelerated chip uh look it plays out everywhere to your earlier question on cost per query in search the reason we feel comfortable we can serve it at that scale scale uh because we are constantly innovating through each generation including chips
[00:17:39] which are really really good at inference right and ironwood which is our latest in our TPU series a single part of ironwood is over 40 exoflops right and and so the scale of these things are incredible and and we have thought about our in all the way from subc cables to the scale at which we do infrastructure is unparalleled and I I've always viewed that full stack approach, you know, deep infrastructure foundational fundamental
[00:18:11] R&D on top of it and then you build and innovate on top of that and I think that approach will serve us well over time. But it really, you know, empirically plays out in, you know, the the cost at which we are able to provide our models. Part of the reason we've had a lot of traction with Gemini 2.5 series is not only are they great models, but we are offering it at a very attractive value. Uh, and we can do that because, you
[00:18:35] know, we we are driving our infrastructure cost down on the $75 billion in capex for uh 2025. You know, obviously majority of that goes into servers, data centers uh and so on. uh servers being the vast portion of it. Uh I would I would say on on looking at 2025 uh and looking at the compute part of the uh spend uh half of that is going towards our cloud business in 2025 and obviously that is a very different uh u uh it's a
[00:19:13] very different business to search and so on. So uh a lot of it is to power the innovations in uh from Google deep mind pushing the frontier and we're doing it across many dimensions right not just large language models but you know even there doing it across not just text images video etc building uh world models right so there's just a lot of uh innovation which we are pushing on the frontier obviously to support our core
[00:19:40] products like search YouTube gemini etc but 50% of the compute goes towards Google cloud Let's just talk about chips for a second. This is a big part of the conversation is Nvidia's got the real market monopoly in AI is what everyone says. Um, do TPUs provide a wholesale replacement for your need for NVIDIA in the supply chain or is NVIDIA still a core part of the mix in the data center for training versus inference uh in LLM
[00:20:06] versus other models? Maybe just share your your understanding of where like the mix evolves to for you guys. Look, first of all, at a high level, Nvidia is a phenomenal company. Uh, you know, Jensen is awesome. We we have been working with Nvidia now for a very very long time and we continue to do so, right? And we serve a lot of the Gemini traffic on GPUs as well, right? And so we give customers choice, etc.
[00:20:31] Internally, we train our Gemini models on TPUs, right? And and and we serve it that way across our products. But uh we use both and uh I do think look I I do think everyone in the industry is going to try and do something like that. But uh but you know it's it's you know Nvidia's R&D uh and and their ability to drive that innovation uh their software stack is world class. So you know they have a lot of uh advantages as a company
[00:20:58] and I have extraordinary respect for them. Uh you know but we've always had you know we are committed you know we are actually deploying GPUs internally as well. I think I like that flexibility and and uh but I I I we are also long-term committed to the TPU direction as well. So I think it's a good combination to have both and and I think we push each other um you know and drive the frontier forward. Just going back so
[00:21:25] there there's an infrastructure advantage inherent in all of the investment that's been made for 20 plus years and the continued investment. A lot of folks have said that some of the performance in foundational LLMs is kind of starting to plateau and as a result we're seeing a less kind of differentiated landscape amongst the competitors and that's should be a consideration for Google. That's the outside kind of narrative. Can you share
[00:21:50] a little bit about and then I want to come back to nonLLM models where there's other advantages for Google in a minute but maybe just on this point how much more um of uh an opportunity to continue to evolve LLM is there where's Google's advantage lie in maintaining better performance in the models over time I think maybe it was Andre Karpati who used the term AJI which is like he called it artificial jag jag
[00:22:17] intelligence right so I think the progress is not going to be always smooth, right? Like you you go through these periods, it looks like something slow and then you see a paradigm breakthrough, etc. And it's been going like that for a while. uh I think obviously over the last couple of years uh you know all of us scaled up on pre-training and then there was a lot of momentum with post-training and then with inference compute uh and and and
[00:22:41] now you know there's progress with how do you take all that and stitch together in agentic workflows and you know and and and so on. So I do think there's a lot of progress and it feels pretty continuous to me, right? I think it's both true progress gets harder which I think will distinguish the elite teams at least on the foundational side. Uh you know I think I think I think that that might be a factor. Uh I felt the the harder the
[00:23:13] problem is I think you know we are well set up for that. Uh I think I think we are well set up for that. I do think we are uh pushing the research frontier in a much broader way than most other people beyond just LLMs transformer based models I mean diffusion you know do you do uh diffusion based models all those areas we are exploring in a deep deep way right so um and you know there's always the chance that we may reach a point where
[00:23:44] you know you quite don't get that returns to the additional compute you're going put in, but I quite haven't seen it yet. Right. It it the progress looks maybe harder because you're now dealing with a lots more compute. So, you're really running into the loss of like can I actually get as many electricians as I can to build the data centers at the speed like I you know all that stuff. But I haven't seen or at least
[00:24:08] talking to our researchers haven't seen anything fundamentally hey like we are not going to be able to move past this point or something like that. Does Google have a data advantage with YouTube or other products or services? Are you able to train on that data in a way that others can't? I think we have the opportunity to create much better experiences for people. I think people use products like Gmail, Calendar, Docs,
[00:24:31] YouTube, search etc. So with their permission taking that personal context into account I think we can deliver much better experiences. We are working on that but it's it's something on which we have to deliver but I view that as one of the uh uh differentiated innovation opportunities we have ahead as a company but it's something we are thoughtfully working on uh we'll make progress there that makes a lot of sense if search
[00:24:57] evolves and I've been using a lot of voice AI tools I find them incredible I can have a conversation access the news dive deep on a topic it's just it's so incredible what do Do you view the future of human computer interaction being 5 to 10 years from now as AI evolves? As computing evolves, am I looking at a screen? Am I typing in a chat? Am I using an AirPod and just getting audio? Am I doing audio plus a screen? Is it just a personalized
[00:25:30] interface? And there's no even concept of the web. What does the future look like for accessing information and pursuing my interests in life as a human using compute? It's a great question. Uh I do think you know the answer has got to be you know we've always you humans have adapted to computing and it's always been that way but over time the answer will be that you need to do less of the hard work less of the adaptation and computing
[00:25:56] kind of works for you right and that's the holy grail I think and and we are making progress right be touch be voice everything inches us towards this future um for example When I wear AR glasses, I already wear glasses, so it's not that, you know, but the AR glasses aren't quite as comfortable as my normal glasses, but they're getting there. It's obvious to me that that'll push it to the next level of seamlessness where it
[00:26:27] kind of is ambiently there and doing stuff for you. So, I think that's the arrow there, you know, the air of uh uh how it'll, you know, it has to be more seamless and just be there for you, you know. Will it be like neural link down the line right you know like you know when I when I want to understand something you know is it is it that seamless right you know I I think all of that is a possibility but I think in the
[00:26:50] immediate world given you're going to have really natively multimodal models which can take you know audio vision language uh all of that and be there in your uh line of view so I think when AR really works. I think that'll wow people. Um, I'm not talking about immersive displays. I'm talking more about AR glasses, right? And I think I think that paradigm looks very interesting to me having used it. You can kind of feel that next leap,
[00:27:26] right? Where uh I think we'll all enjoy using it in a way, but you still have a little bit of system integration challenges to work through. So, we have maybe couple cycles away to get to that sweet spot. uh what smartphones were in around 2006 2007. So, but maybe that's the next leap, right? And and so probably that's what's exciting for me. Are you spending a lot of time on hardware? Yes. Right. I think um we are definitely excited about
[00:27:54] be AR glasses, the next for form factors, um you know, uh robotics is another area, all that. uh and we obviously build pixel phones uh you know we build vast data centers so we are definitely in the physical world you can think of Whimo as a big robot we are driving around everywhere so we're making uh with our partners cars that way so definitely yes I just want to zoom out and look at there's this competitive
[00:28:21] landscape that's emerged for Google that maybe maybe it's always been challenging maybe there's always been competitors but they're getting a lot of money and they're investing a lot of money more than to compete with Google. How have the founders of Google, I've seen both of them recently. Sounds like Sergey's spending time here. Uh they both independently shared with me that this is the most exciting thing they've ever
[00:28:47] seen in computer science and it's transforming everything. How engaged are they? How much time do you spend with them? And what's your relationship like there? They are, you know, obviously fortunate to have both of them uh involved in their own unique ways uh deeply. I talk to them all the time. Um, look, I think both Larry, Sergey, I, you know, you know, credit to them. They always envision like where AI would be.
[00:29:12] I think, uh, you know, I think I think their ability to understand trends and and you know, I I swear I've had conversations maybe as early as like 15, 20 years ago about moments like this with them. I think they are both would argue that this is the most exciting uh time in the field uh you know and and I they both engage in their own ways. I think Sergey is definitely uh spending time with the with the Gemini team at a
[00:29:41] uh you know in a pretty hardcore way like you know sitting and coding and uh spending time with the engineers uh and that gives the energy to the team which I think it's unparalleled right like to have a founder sitting there looking at loss curves giving feedback on model architectures uh how can we improve post training etc I think I think you know it's a it's a rare rare place to be But you know my favorite conversations are sometimes
[00:30:07] when the three of us sit and talk. Uh the combination of I mean they are very nonlinear thinkers. So I feel like it expands the conversation into ways which you always don't expect and out of it which comes interesting ideas. So I think I always have access to that but I think I've worked with them uh for such a long time you know you know there is friendship, respect, mutual dialogue. uh we love doing that and uh and I think
[00:30:34] it's uh we'll I'll always have that. Your competitors out there have active founders. OpenAI has SAM, XAI has Elon, Meta has Zuck and um Microsoft has Satcha. Are you willing to kind of share your perspectives on those four competitors, both the companies and the leaders? Look, it's a obviously by by definition it's a very impressive group, right? And um I think I think you're talking about some of the best companies, some of the best
[00:31:04] entrepreneurs uh uh all that look I I you know it shows how uh both how much progress we are going to see because you're basically talking about many people uh who are working hard to drive that progress. Right? So to the earlier question when you were talking about are we going to see progress the answer has got to be yes because of the uh you know the the unique types of people here pushing progress right so look each of
[00:31:34] them they're they're different people I I fortunate to know all of them and I think maybe only one of them has invited me to a dance not the others uh right but I just look I spent time with Elon maybe two weeks ago um when I talked to him and his ability to will future technologies into existence. I think it's just unparalleled. So like look, these are phenomenal people. I respect all of them. U you know there's
[00:32:00] partnerships involved, there's competition involved. But if I were to step back and say, you know, at the end of the day, I love, you know, driving technology progress in a way that impacts people positively. um when you think about areas like healthcare and and other important areas education and you know like we are now talking about this is why AI is so profound so the opportunity is what excites me I think all of us are
[00:32:30] going to do well in this scenario that's how I think about it right I think that's what a lot of people don't gro and I think this is an important point everyone out there says there's competitors there's a winner and everyone else is a loser but this is an entirely new world that's going to be a lot bigger than the world we had last here and uh everyone's building down their own path, but there's going to be
[00:32:50] a lot of success. It's not just that who's going to beat whom in the in the marketplace. When the internet happened, right? Google wasn't even around. Right. Right. So, we obviously So, the the other thing you can say is there are companies we don't even know, haven't been started yet, their names aren't known, might be extraordinarily big winners in the AI thing, right? So it's it's going to be AI is a much bigger uh