[00:46:02] vision language, action models etc are world class. I do think um you know robotics uh you know so we are now thinking through how we either partner or where we actually bring products out. you are right we we tried the application layer too early uh where I think robotics wasn't really being influenced by AI as much but now it's it's really the combination of AI plus robotics that gives that next sweet spot
[00:46:31] right and and so we are uh making plans there uh nothing to share today but you will see us make more announcements in the space but we are definitely uh foundationally driving uh the underlying uh models and We are building state-of-the-art models there. We are working with partners and testing it. You know that when I look at the progress of humanoid robots etc. I mean they are uh you know in the past I would
[00:46:58] say oh these this is obviously uh you know you can see how janky they are. Now I have to take 5 seconds to look at it and say closely and say is this fake or is this an actual robot doing it? Right. Right. like already I'm in that moment and so and so you can see the progress uh in the field underway. So I think you know we are probably two to three years away from that magical moment in robotics too and so so that's the next
[00:47:26] exciting phase is a good way to think about it that Google could potentially develop the Android for robotics and ultimately have a broad play here. Yeah, we have intrinsic so one of our bets is effectively doing that. So uh supporting uh robotics manufacturers um you know we we are committed to having the Gemini as a model you know will will take all modalities into account work very very well for robotics it's definitely something we are
[00:47:53] committed to being on how we actually bring products out first party versus third party etc is where we are thinking I want to talk a little bit about culture which seems to be a key differentiator on the kind of competitive landscape I go back to thinking about Google offering free food, massages at work, 20% time as a way to attract and win in the early days of the talent wars in Silicon Valley, early 2000s and and and that persisted.
[00:48:19] But what happened is it grew and it became more amenities and the narrative is that Google ended up creating a culture that kind of moved away from more accountability and performance and was much more about coddling employees. Can you just comment on kind of your observations on the evolution of Google over the 20 years that you've been here and what you've tried to do lately as a leader? How you think about the culture
[00:48:42] you want to foster and what you're doing about it? Look, I think it's important to step back and say, you know, the underpinnings of a culture in which you really invest in employees and and you empower them and and even some of the perks was to create a a a culture where it's positive, optimistic, you're in an innovation mindset, people are talking to each other. Maybe by giving lunch here, people are all sitting and talking
[00:49:10] ideas through lunch, you're cross-pollinating. Imagine. So you know that is the thesis of it. Not that we are trying to give lunch to people right and and so I till today feel you know we still get a lot of innovation in the company at all levels of the company and I think people wake up um you know and say well I can go do this notebook LM etc are great examples right and so people do that all the time. So I think
[00:49:38] empowering employees has been and is and will be a source of strength for Google right I think we can attract higher caliber people who feel like they have agency to do that right and but that doesn't mean like you know I think I think people shouldn't confuse that with like today for example you can take something like Google deep mind I think there is all the way from Demis and others you know extraordinary leadership team be korai
[00:50:03] Jeff Oral no me etc all these leaders have strong opinions depends on how to drive that frontier forward and and that's happening too right so I think it's important to strike a balance balance uh between the two I think when you empower employees a lot in some ways like you know we have allowed for more free speech than other companies that's one way you can think about it so you're going to hear voices sometimes you can
[00:50:27] hear like what is effectively 500 people in the company but that doesn't represent the company as a whole so in some ways we are different from other companies and can confuse use it on the outside I think but I think overall look we have a clear sense of where we are going I think we want to empower people all in the service of our mission so if anything you know over the past few years and you are right there are
[00:50:51] moments not just us but as an industry I think uh I think some of the other things became more of the focus than the mission of the company and why we are all here right like we are we are not all here in the company to resolve all our personal differences or something. We are here because you're excited about, you know, innovating in the service of the mission of the company and and the impact you can have. And so
[00:51:16] bringing that focus back, that's something I've been very deliberate about for for the past few years. And I think it needs reinforcing. I think one of the lessons for me was we all grew so much that you assumed everyone always understood those underpinnings but then when you added so many people you realize you have to go back and repeat that a lot uh to to help people internalize that. We've done that and we
[00:51:42] do that all the time. Uh I think moments like this help a lot too. The current moment is just genuinely both so exciting and so intense. It actually reminds me a lot of early Google, right? You know, when I walk into the GDM building, you know, some of our earliest engineers are all sitting there working together. People come in 5 days a week at a minimum, right? And so you have that intensity and you have that
[00:52:11] excitement and I feel that same sense of optimism. So that's what I'm focused on, right? You know, to me that's the hardcordness which matters, right? like are people smart people really working with a passion and that's where that intensity comes from and and you have to work hard to create that and you know there are pockets of the company if that doesn't happen you figure out what are the changes you need
[00:52:34] to make uh to to do that right and sometimes for example I recreated the notion of labs right and and and because I said well there are things that are possible with 10erson teams and so we need go and do that again and and there are quite a few projects both we have shipping and are underway to come which will be an outcome of those efforts as well. So you know your culture your values are enduring culture is something you're
[00:53:02] constantly tweaking to make sure you're true to your values and so by definition there's going to be drift and you know you work hard to uh uh snap it back. Was there a moment in the last 10 years where you said I've got to spend more time on this? Oh, you know, uh, for sure. I look, I think CO was such a big distortion to to the to our way of working, right? So, you know, fundamentally Google was designed to be
[00:53:30] uh a culture in which people were seeing each other, engaging with each other. So, losing that continuity, right, I I think definitely impacted our culture. So when we have we've gotten people back uh in a 3-2 model and some teams are you know work uh beyond that I think it's been important I've I've spent time to get those connections back like you know for example GDM we were intentional in creating a physical space where we can
[00:53:58] get all of them back in the same building both in London both in Mountain View and and and taking our newest building um you know with that kind of a tentlike roof structure and putting all the people in and being intentional about it has made a massive difference. Have you found a shift in your ability to recruit top talent? A lot of great talent has started other great companies, other great companies in Silicon Valley have recruited folks. I
[00:54:27] know there's always a talent war going on, but has there been a tenor shift for Google in the last period of time because of some of the underlying advantages in AI or some of the cultural changes that are underway? the talent market you know we go through these fierce moments for talent AI is one of them and whenever there are these Google you know obviously we we are fortunate to have some of the most talented
[00:54:51] employees so we are a source I'm equally proud of the fact that I think Googleers have left to start over 2,000 companies right and and so you know there is a virtuous cycle I think people come back we acquire companies I think all of that keeps the company uh fresh but in the current AI moment Look, I think we are both holding on to critical talent. We are recruiting. You know, I always look at the tip of the
[00:55:14] tree of are we able to attract the best PhD researchers coming out of the top programs and the answer is yes. Um you know and and there are people who have left who have come back and so I feel good about the position we are but you work at it hard every week, every month and so on. Do you think this is going to change in the future with how we do education and how AI plays a role in education? Are you going to be able to
[00:55:39] identify, recruit, and then teach and train talent out of high schools and at an earlier age? And the traditional kind of college education system is going to change because of AI on the job training. There's a lot of potential to change. I just there's a part of me which feels maybe we've all misunderstood what colleges are about and maybe colleges are about that community and people getting together and exchanging. So it you know there may
[00:56:06] be intangibles which which would still uh maybe make the uh uh uh you know it more valuable than like we all perceive it to be but um but the way I think about it is you're going to get extraordinary talent at more places around the world. So that's the way I think about it because people have access to with AI. So you don't need to be in a few certain places to be that uh that great uh great talent. So I think
[00:56:35] the nature of that changes. By the way, I think it's an important thing to internalize. We often talk about talent. We've always been able to recruit the best talent uh in the country. But now there's extraordinary talent emerging in other parts of the world too. So I think it's something not to lose uh line of sight and you know maybe that's the way I would think about it. So just taking a step back zooming back I had a
[00:56:56] conversation 10 years ago with Larry Paige where he talked about the transition from Google to Alphabet. Alphabet is going to be this holding company. It's going to discover or develop the next hundred billion dollar revenue business. At the time, I think Google wasn't quite at hundred billion. There have been a lot of these investments and other bets since that time. Do you still think about Alphabet as a holding company? Are there still
[00:57:19] multiple businesses that you want to kind of stand up and foster and have this kind of holding company model? Is that still hold or is Google really the core engine that's going to continue to evolve and continue to have ancillary businesses that are you know somewhat adjacent to Google? I'll answer it two ways, right? So I think the way we are not a holding company in the sense that we are we are not just like looking to
[00:57:45] invest capital in other attractive businesses that's that's not who we are right uh we are you know from a foundational technology basis if you can take that technology and that R&D we do and identify problems in which we can innovate and bring a differentiated value proposition we'll do do that, right? So that's the way we approach and so the the structure is an outcome of that, right? So and which means you will have
[00:58:17] businesses uh on on on on paper they may look like very desperate but there's a common strand underneath them right so like mayo is going to keep getting better because of the same work we do in Gemini and AI over time as Google cloud to search to YouTube to isomorphic to robotics etc. So that is the unifying layer right and and then it's a continuum is Google cloud a Google business or an alphabet business right
[00:58:48] you know we segment it out right and so uh so you know so the the the branding matters less I think right you know we'll have a range of companies some of them will leave and IPO out because maybe that's the best way they can make progress so all of that is a possibility but what I think I founders think about is like the underlying innovation by which so we think at the units of quantum right you know alpha fold and
[00:59:17] hence isomorphic right you know self-driving and and building the way more driver and hence all the businesses on top of it so it's more maybe maybe that's how we think about it right does X still play a big role in driving innovation and you continue to invest there yeah look I think if anything um X over time look a lot of lot of these innovations did that come out of X, right? And so, um, including Whimo, uh,
[00:59:43] you know, the early incarnations of Google Brain, right? Yeah. So, so I think, uh, X as an incubator, um, allows us to, uh, you know, push the boundaries. They're thinking about uh, tapestries, thinking about the grid problem. um that are uh you know uh extraordinary but but it's all rooted in computer science, physics, kind of a deep uh technology R&D and I think that's the foundation across everything we do. As we wrap up um I want to ask
[01:00:14] you one last question to hopefully frame your experience of the last 10 years as a CEO. Biggest regret, biggest mistake and what you're most proud of. Proud is obvious. Look, I I think I think we have as a company I think there aren't that many companies which can push the technology frontier like you don't hear of companies winning Nobel prizes often. That level of foundational R&D we do and then apply it to create businesses and
[01:00:42] value. I think I think we've done an extraordinary job at that and we aspire to do that. You know, I'm I'm really proud of that. I think we're pretty unique as a company that way. You know, there a lot of small regrets, you know, by nature. I tend to look forward and I learn from mistakes we make. But look, there are acquisitions we debated hard came close and you know some of them are just give me one name or get in trouble. Maybe Netflix, right?
[01:01:12] Like we debated Netflix at some point super intensely inside. So you go through these moments, right? and and uh and uh you know and so uh I wouldn't call it regrets but you always look back and like you know like you know in in a world of butterfly effects there were alternate paths but maybe they are in a different part of the multiverse. Yes. Yes. I always um tell people I I think they underappreciate the role that Bell
[01:01:38] Labs played in driving innovation and ultimately human prosperity in the early 20th century. And I do think a lot of people underappreciate the role that Alphabet is playing in driving innovation across so many different lanes which drives prosperity, businesses, competition, all that stuff aside, the innovation that's being driven out of Alphabet continues to impress and benefit us all. And so I want to thank you for your leadership
[01:02:03] and the time. Thanks, David. Real pleasure. I'm going all in.