[00:30:34] it's uh we'll I'll always have that. Your competitors out there have active founders. OpenAI has SAM, XAI has Elon, Meta has Zuck and um Microsoft has Satcha. Are you willing to kind of share your perspectives on those four competitors, both the companies and the leaders? Look, it's a obviously by by definition it's a very impressive group, right? And um I think I think you're talking about some of the best companies, some of the best
[00:31:04] entrepreneurs uh uh all that look I I you know it shows how uh both how much progress we are going to see because you're basically talking about many people uh who are working hard to drive that progress. Right? So to the earlier question when you were talking about are we going to see progress the answer has got to be yes because of the uh you know the the unique types of people here pushing progress right so look each of
[00:31:34] them they're they're different people I I fortunate to know all of them and I think maybe only one of them has invited me to a dance not the others uh right but I just look I spent time with Elon maybe two weeks ago um when I talked to him and his ability to will future technologies into existence. I think it's just unparalleled. So like look, these are phenomenal people. I respect all of them. U you know there's
[00:32:00] partnerships involved, there's competition involved. But if I were to step back and say, you know, at the end of the day, I love, you know, driving technology progress in a way that impacts people positively. um when you think about areas like healthcare and and other important areas education and you know like we are now talking about this is why AI is so profound so the opportunity is what excites me I think all of us are
[00:32:30] going to do well in this scenario that's how I think about it right I think that's what a lot of people don't gro and I think this is an important point everyone out there says there's competitors there's a winner and everyone else is a loser but this is an entirely new world that's going to be a lot bigger than the world we had last here and uh everyone's building down their own path, but there's going to be
[00:32:50] a lot of success. It's not just that who's going to beat whom in the in the marketplace. When the internet happened, right? Google wasn't even around. Right. Right. So, we obviously So, the the other thing you can say is there are companies we don't even know, haven't been started yet, their names aren't known, might be extraordinarily big winners in the AI thing, right? So it's it's going to be AI is a much bigger uh
[00:33:19] landscape opportunity landscape than all the previous technologies we have known combined combined and so you know so which is why I think it's all about uh you know the companies which will end up doing well or you will do well because you're able to innovate and execute with the best talent you know that's that ends up being the driver well let's talk about that and let's talk about the unknown competitor Deepseek popped up
[00:33:43] tell me about your impression of the model, the performance, the rumors about the next model, and what does that tell you about what's going on in China and what's going on that we're not seeing? Look, I think the main moment from Deepseek was uh look always, you know, if you if you kind of follow the AI research and scan through papers and read them, no, nobody who does that would underestimate China, right? Like,
[00:34:08] you know, so when you look at the amount of research output from China, right? Um they have extraordinary talent. Um and and and so but I do think all of us had to adjust our priors a little bit after the deepseek moment which was like wow they are even closer to the frontier than most people maybe assume you know and so I think I think that was a moment. I think internally for us uh I think externally people are very
[00:34:37] impressed and rightfully so with how efficient their models were. Interestingly for us internally we benchmarked it to flash and you know flash was uh as efficient or you know you could argue in some ways better. So you know I think I think to our earlier conversations I I do think this is more maybe internal baseball for us you know we were benchmarking and saying look it's good to see you know because they
[00:35:01] had to work in a hardware constrained way I think which is what drove a lot of their uh innovations and efficiency improvements and you know uh and so I was pleased with that but you know it tells you that the frontier is is uh evolving rapidly there are more players closer to it than people fully realize And it's going to be a very dynamic moment uh in the industry. I think China will will will be uh very very
[00:35:27] competitive on the AI frontier is just what I always assumed and much of the narrative and I think probably the fact around the ability to deploy AI at scale is one that is predicated on availability of electricity. Mhm. Even Elon, and I've been talking about this for a while on my podcast, but Elon this week is saying, "Hey, I need a terowatt of compute." Uh, terowatt is roughly the power production or the electricity
[00:35:55] production capacity of the entire United States. US is going from 1 to two between now and 2040. China's going from 3 to 8 and there's probably upside given all the new electricity production technologies that they're rolling out now, which will be additive to that. How much is electricity generation going to play a role in who is going to economically benefit from AI over the next 10 to 15 years and where is the US
[00:36:19] compared to China and maybe where is Google. Well, look, you are uh definitely uh hitting on you know what is uh you know when you when you look at any system you want to find where the constraint is because that's what like gates the whole system and you are rightfully identifying uh the most likely constraint for uh AI progress and and hence by definition GDP growth and all that stuff right so I do worry about
[00:36:46] it a lot um but you know the answers or you know sometimes you run into challenges which are you know you have to solve you know you're running into physics barriers or something like that. This is not a problem like that, right? Like we already know the technologies that can work to supply the demand we need. So it's more to me an an execution challenge, right? I would I would phrase the energy problem as uh it's obviously
[00:37:17] multifaceted. Uh but I think I think be it really embracing we shouldn't have innovators dilemma in the energy sector, right? So we should lean into all the possible innovations ahead and there are many of them. Obviously first of all people perpetually I think will underestimate solar right you know solar plus batteries will end up being huge. uh you know obviously uh the amount of innovation that's going into nuclear
[00:37:46] geothermal all of that are uh opportunities to uh uh embrace and more I'm not mentioning but I think you know upgrading the grid uh you know solving for transmission uh you know permitting to make all of that progress faster and then actually I think we maybe workforce constraint like you know to to my earlier point Right? You know, I think we are all if you look at the number of electricians leaving the workforce versus
[00:38:18] suddenly all of us and if you you project out this demand, there's a huge mismatch, right? So, literally how you know how do you make sure there is incentives and workforce development to address shortages like that over the next decade will end up being important policies. Uh I think we are fortunate you know people like Secretary Wright and Secretary Bergam I mean they are very I think deeply aware uh of the
[00:38:45] issue and I think they are uh hitting hitting the problem hard but I definitely think it's solvable but I think we all have to put our mind towards it but for your business today you don't see electricity constraining growth in the business in this moment or in the projectable future. No, I won't say that right like just for example we are supply constraint this year in our cloud business right and when we are all
[00:39:10] of us are simultaneously looking to scale up data centers right so we are running into real constraints the way the constraints play out today is delays in projects because of permitting or you know not having access to electricians all of that is realities all of us are dealing with right So if this trend line continues the pace at which we are all ramping up and obviously for it to continue we all have to generate the
[00:39:37] returns on it and you know and and so it has to really impact the economy in a more substantive way. So they go hand in hand uh if the trend continues these constraints will be much more visible I think today we are all working through these constraints uh so I think there are real constraints today uh but I expect it to for us to be competitive with China etc. I think we have to solve these constraints in the near future.
[00:40:01] What does that look like then? Fast forward 15 years. The US has 25% of the electricity of China. Mhm. Is China just bigger GDP in that moment? Is the pie going to grow for everyone? You know, how do we kind of think about how, you know, the way I've assumed is the US is always there's never been a time where US just doesn't meet these moments, right? So to me I look at it and say it just means that you know the capitalist
[00:40:29] solutions will innovate through this moment right that's why people are working hard to build SMRs and uh nuclear fusion etc. So I've kind of assumed we will meet that moment and if we don't or if if the if the lines don't match I think the conversations will get louder and louder till we meet the moment. Uh that's that's the way I internalize it. There's a history of Google investing in innovative technologies and being ignored or being
[00:40:57] told that they don't make much sense. Good luck. The TPU is a great example. The acquisition of Deep Mind is a great example. The investment in infrastructure is a great example. The insane continued investment forever in Whimo. Yeah. Is a great example. And suddenly it looks like Whimo's on track to be a hundred billion dollar business and this is actually going to work. mindblowing persistence and patience. By
[00:41:22] the way, we have we are doing the same patient approach in many other areas. That's my next question. Quantum is one. So tell me about quantum but you know but because everyone ignores quantum. You've had this investment for some time. Why is quantum so important? Because again I want to use the historical data that it does it seems like a small bet. Good luck. But what does quantum evolve to from a compute perspective for humanity and when does
[00:41:47] that happen do you think? Obviously quantum has gotten a lot more attention in the last 12 months or so. Uh but we've been work just like Whimo we work through these things whether there's attention from the outside or not because we are working on these things out of conviction on the long-term trends. Right? So it's it comes from those first principles. Um obviously the universe is fundamentally quantum. uh
[00:42:10] you know to to do any kind of large scale uh simulations in a way that truly represent nature you know you would need uh some versions of quantum computing. I think to me quantum feels like where AI was around you know 2015. So I would say in a 5-year time frame you would have that moment where some a really useful practical computation you know is done in a quantum way far superior to classical computers and that'll be that aha moment
[00:42:47] uh you know I think which will really show the promise of the industry. uh I'm absolutely confident that we will get there when I see the progress and I can pattern match to progress in the other fundamental areas we have worked on. So it really doesn't feel like obviously look these are very challenging areas. You may hit a constraint. I do think a lot of people are making announcements in quantum. So in some ways it's tough to distinguish
[00:43:11] them. We had the same scenario in self-driving maybe 3 years ago. There were so many people doing self-driving. It looked like everyone was roughly the same but they weren't. Uh I could internally tell the difference that how far ahead Whimo was. I feel that way about our quantum effort too. I think there are a lot of announcements, a lot of noise in the industry. There are few good people, but like you know, you know, but I I do
[00:43:35] think we are at the at the frontier there and so you know I'm I'm pretty excited about it in a 3 to 5 year time frame, but we'll be patient and get there. Yeah. Do you want to speculate on a business in quantum? Look, I I we are committed to, you know, in almost all these cases, our goal would be to, you know, demonstrate more and more useful practical algorithms and show progress on that and and give access to it
[00:44:05] through cloud, right? And and I think, you know, I always say it's tough to project innovation on top of a platform, right? Nobody could say just because you had smartphones and GPS and payments something like Uber would get invented. You couldn't linearly sit and project Uber from the underlying innovation. That's how the world works. And so uh for me quantum is that foundational again just like AI there's going to be extraordinary innovations on
[00:44:33] top of it. We don't know the algorithms yet. It's almost like trying to predict how people would use personal computers in 1977 or something. That's right. We're very early and you know some of the the constraints in quantum are that there aren't quantum computers to test them out new algorithms to test them out. There's a lot of theory in quantum algorithm development but not a lot of testability experimentation at this
[00:44:54] point. We are working on all of that too. I think we'll have more exciting moments to share this year. So look forward to making I think that that's what's interesting. It will expand people's minds of the potential of what you can actually do. Right now, no one really knows how to think about quantum, where it's going to take us. But those announcements, I think, are going to be really preient. And then I'm assuming
[00:45:12] all your friends will show up and say, "We've got a quantum effort." Now, too. Tell me about robotics. I think this was going to be the year of the robot. We see so many models being trained on simulation data or real world kind of observational data that are then being used to control physical systems. Call it physical AI, call it robotics. Lots of startups, lots of big companies. Google bought Boston Dynamics and a
[00:45:35] bunch of other robotic companies. I think Andy Rubin was overseeing these for a while and then you sold them off and decided it was too early. What's your point of view on the opportunity in robotics today? How does Google play here? We are definitely for robotics, you know, we again have probably, you know, one of the most advanced frontier R&D teams in the world now. uh you know and and the Gemini robotics efforts around
[00:46:02] vision language, action models etc are world class. I do think um you know robotics uh you know so we are now thinking through how we either partner or where we actually bring products out. you are right we we tried the application layer too early uh where I think robotics wasn't really being influenced by AI as much but now it's it's really the combination of AI plus robotics that gives that next sweet spot
[00:46:31] right and and so we are uh making plans there uh nothing to share today but you will see us make more announcements in the space but we are definitely uh foundationally driving uh the underlying uh models and We are building state-of-the-art models there. We are working with partners and testing it. You know that when I look at the progress of humanoid robots etc. I mean they are uh you know in the past I would
[00:46:58] say oh these this is obviously uh you know you can see how janky they are. Now I have to take 5 seconds to look at it and say closely and say is this fake or is this an actual robot doing it? Right. Right. like already I'm in that moment and so and so you can see the progress uh in the field underway. So I think you know we are probably two to three years away from that magical moment in robotics too and so so that's the next
[00:47:26] exciting phase is a good way to think about it that Google could potentially develop the Android for robotics and ultimately have a broad play here. Yeah, we have intrinsic so one of our bets is effectively doing that. So uh supporting uh robotics manufacturers um you know we we are committed to having the Gemini as a model you know will will take all modalities into account work very very well for robotics it's definitely something we are
[00:47:53] committed to being on how we actually bring products out first party versus third party etc is where we are thinking I want to talk a little bit about culture which seems to be a key differentiator on the kind of competitive landscape I go back to thinking about Google offering free food, massages at work, 20% time as a way to attract and win in the early days of the talent wars in Silicon Valley, early 2000s and and and that persisted.
[00:48:19] But what happened is it grew and it became more amenities and the narrative is that Google ended up creating a culture that kind of moved away from more accountability and performance and was much more about coddling employees. Can you just comment on kind of your observations on the evolution of Google over the 20 years that you've been here and what you've tried to do lately as a leader? How you think about the culture