[00:15:00] No crying in the casino. Yeah, exactly. You could put somebody crying in the casino. Yes. Yeah. Literally in the app. No crying in the casino. I think I guess I mean the point you're making is you can't on the one hand cry for access and on the other hand cry in the casino. Exactly. Can't do that. But the executive order on 401k access I think was a step in the right direction. So we could also ease into it by extending that to individual retirement
[00:15:28] accounts which are great short-term vehicles and then give it to you need a secured interest. Why can't you just create a synthetic or like a fast contract saying if and when open AI goes public cuz you can see how many shares there are. You know what the legal registration of the corporation is. Can't you create like a synthetic contract that just trades the value of the stock and ultimately needs to settle
[00:15:49] at some point after the company goes public? We can't do that currently. Uh and and OpenAI in particular is a tricky one because yeah, pick any other LLC or C or something, right? Um but yeah, we're we're continuing to look at all angles, but I I think some clarity would be helpful because this is the whole value of of like sorry Chimat, but like futures markets and prediction markets is you can effectively create a synthetic on
[00:16:15] some underlying without actually having ownership or a secured interest in the underlying or delivery of the commodity. You could basically just say when this thing goes public, it's above 20 bucks a share, below 20 bucks a share on some number of days after something like that. But I mean I guess one one question for you is is that where prediction markets can take us? So um the the difference within with prediction markets is you can create a
[00:16:36] prediction market but it has to have an expiry date for the contract. So for example we have a prediction market live on the platform now about which companies are going to IPO. You could do something like that. There have been prediction markets uh in the past, not on our platform, but some other platforms that make a market around the IPO price, but if you just want exposure to underlying equity in a private, I I
[00:17:01] No text don't think we can do that. How do you think about, you know, the one criticism people have had, which is, hey, we have got a young generation. They're frisky. They want to take all this risk. They want to bet. and your responsibility as a platform that is giving that access if you're the on-ramp the education you give and and I remember with the options and people being able to short you you came up with
[00:17:27] an incredibly elegant solution when you try to short something you give people a test you give them education in that moment before they do it so so how do you think broadly about young people getting into wagering they're playing cards you know they're they're betting on fantasy football and doing sports betting, but they also want to, you know, have their hand in crypto and in puts and calls and and and pretty
[00:17:52] sophisticated stuff. So, what's your responsibility as a platform then in introducing them to those sophisticated um ways of betting and investing? I have a lot of thoughts actually when uh you interviewed me for a job in uh 2008, which by the way was the only it was one of two like final job interviews that I got. Most people just rejected me. I never even got a call from from uh from Google or any of the others, but uh
[00:18:19] it was either Weather Bill, later Climate Corp, uh or Optiver, where I interviewed to be an options trader. Um so I got very very close. We had a math team. Yeah, I got very close. Was he like in the interview? He you probably don't even remember. You remember Alex Machulka? Yeah, I think he was uh he um I forget my recruiter's name, but that guy was great. Anyway, um and then I became an entrepreneur. So uh it might
[00:18:51] not surprise you to know that me personally uh I'm I'm sort of like adverse to control on the level of risk that I would take because my entire career path was sort of like maximally levered bet on one company which is the one that I started. Um so I would be reluctant to discourage people from being entrepreneurs to doing what they want to do with their money or time. Of course, I'm I'm in favor of like reasonable things like you should
[00:19:22] it should be clear to you what you're investing in. Um but yeah, generally speaking, I think if it's available to wealthy people, high netw worth individuals, it should be made available to retail as well. Let me broaden the conversation. Um it No text used to be historically we would have banks, we would have brokerages, we'd have payment processors, we'd have merchant acquirers. They were all disagregated. They could all be public.
[00:19:45] they could all build thriving companies. Now with stable coins and everything else, there's this creeping convergence. You're issuing a credit card. Coinbase has a credit card. SoFi has a federal banking license. Stripe just launched a new L1 called Tempo. Everybody's competing with everybody. Tell us the scope of where you think Robin Hood goes in the next four or five years and what the financial landscape
[00:20:13] and infrastructure looks like. The Visas, the Mastercards, the JP Morgans, what roles do these companies play as you guys just become more and more ambitious and girthy and big and you know market cap and all that stuff. Yeah, I think the industry goes through periods of consolidation and then divergence. I think Robin Hood has a unique advantage which is that our customers put an increasing amount of their dollars into Robin Hood. So what
[00:20:43] we're thinking about and and it became pretty clear to us as soon as we rolled out our second product. We kind of saw what happened. Customers spent more time on Robin Hood. The two products help each other. So for example with retirement we noticed you know the big question was well if we launch retirement is it going to cannibalize the core brokerage business but what we saw was the opposite. If someone opens
[00:21:06] up a retirement account they they tend to actually increase the amount they put in their individual account and we saw that again with the credit card. If they're a credit card primary user top of wallet they actually put more money into into Robin Hood. So then that gets us to a future where we ask ourselves, can we be your comprehensive financial platform? Can you put your direct deposit into Robin Hood? Can you put all
[00:21:31] of your money into Robin Hood? Can you get to gold subscriber premium status as soon as possible? And then can we get all of your family members onto Robin Hood as well and your kids? So yeah, I don't think anyone's really thinking about it from that angle, but I think that there's going to be over 130 trillion that changes hands from silent generation and baby boomers to younger people. And and I think Robin Hood's
[00:22:00] actually very well positioned to be one of the, if not the number one primary institution that benefits from that transfer. We've got over a quarter trillion assets on the platform already, which seems like a a big number, but it's actually just a drop in the bucket compared to what's going to happen. Where do you see the JP Morgans and the V Mastercards and Visas? How do they compete with an elegant product with
[00:22:24] hundreds of millions of users that just, you know, the product velocity that you have, the risk you're willing to take? Yeah. I mean, I think that uh if if you think about an incumbent, they have certain benefits. They're like very muscular from a regulatory standpoint. Like they know how to deal with regulators. They've got global scale. They've got, you know, tens, hundreds of millions of customers, lots of assets.
[00:22:48] But the disadvantage is that they're sometimes slow to adopt new technologies. They don't have the best engineering teams. They can't move very fast. Um, and they they can't hire the best talent. And and so I think that we don't have those downsides. We have great talent. We move really quickly. We use the best technology. We haven't been super acquisitive historically, even though we're doing more. And that
[00:23:15] prevents us from being bogged down by these like massive integration things that take multiple years. Um, and so it's a question of can we get the benefits of scale while also maintaining the nimleness of a technology startup. No text Do you want to give the audience before we run out of time, maybe last question, but tell them about the LLM you guys are building? This is a different project for you. Oh yeah. Um and the goal of that and why you
[00:23:41] decided to fund that sort of outside the scope of Robin Hood. Yeah. So uh he's talking about Harmonic, which is a company that I started two years ago and I'm chairman of and uh completely separate from Robin Hood. and and basically the goal there is to build what we call mathematical super intell intelligence. So this is um mathematical reasoning that is uh exceeding the capability of any individual human researcher. And we we had a pretty cool
[00:24:12] result a couple weeks ago where we announced gold medal level performance at the international math olympiad which is the biggest uh mathematics competition in the world. And and I think to my knowledge we were the only formal model. You're the only formal one that got IMO gold. Yeah. Yeah. So open eye and Gemini. Open eye Gemini uh did it with informal uh Gemini's in formal model got a silver last year. Explain why it's going to be so critical
[00:24:40] to have a a mathematical super intelligence model. Yeah. So two reasons. Um one that has to do with how these models are trained and the other which is more of a consumer painoint. The thing that we've figured out with formal is how to verify that a statement is true very precisely. And when you're doing reinforcement learning of these models, having a strong reward signal is very helpful because you can just discard all the data that's not
[00:25:08] helpful and train on the high quality like correct data. And when you're a user of these AI models, sometimes they hallucinate. Uh and and this is actually not just a consumer problem, but also an enterprise problem because basically if you're a software engineer using a coding model, your job has has become over the past couple of years, it it's turned from writing a whole bunch of high-quality code to reviewing LLM
[00:25:34] generated code and making sure that that's correct. So in a world where you've got, you know, LLMs producing thousands and thousands of pages of code, human verification just doesn't scale, particularly for backend. So we want to solve that problem. Okay, give it up for David Sax's second favorite. Good to see you guys. Thank you. Thanks, brother. I'll see you in Vegas.