[00:14:59] our President Trump addressed this PR crisis on truth social calling out Microsoft and never want Americans to pay higher electricity bills because of data centers. Two words, data centers. I added the last part. Microsoft will make major changes beginning this week to ensure that Americans don't pick up the tab for their power consumption. Microsoft President Brad Smith announced they will pay higher electricity rates
[00:15:24] where they are building data centers to cover the cost of the new power generation and grid upgrades. Seems like a pretty simple idea. And they're also going to pay to replenish water that it draws from the reservoirs. That issue has also been a little bit overblown. Freeberg, you probably or actually tomorrow, you probably know a lot about that and you can explain the data center recycling water issues and the
[00:15:44] misperceptions. And they're not Microsoft has announced they're not going to accept any tax breaks or electricity rate discounts. So that era seems to have ended. Chop, you're involved in a number of data centers and obviously David Sachs, you're involved in this as are AIS are. and civil servants. So, Shabbath, why don't you start us off here? >> You guys can find the clip, but we talked about this a few weeks ago that
[00:16:08] these kinds of things were in the offing. I really like it. It's a very good first order set of things to do, which is to step into a local area and take all of these energy issues off the table, >> at least to the extent that you're contributing to it. >> The problem is that the data centers are only part of the problem. The reality is that we have a whole new way of living that is drawing more and more electrons. We are at a shortage for
[00:16:39] what we need. The reaction of the utilities is to now build which is the right reaction. The problem is that for the last 20 years they've been underbuilding. So as they catch up, even if you have the data centers that are willing to pay their fair share, rates will still go up. So what do we need to do that is beyond what Microsoft just announced? I think all the hyperscalers should copy what Microsoft did. I think it's great
[00:17:10] that the president was able to get these guys to the table to agree to it. What is the next major thing? The next major thing is when you actually create a hundred or $200 billion tax equity vehicle and you have them completely subsidize and pay for the electricity costs of homeowners. How do you do that? You do that by paying for them to get solar and storage. Why would they do that? They would do that for two reasons. Number one, and the
[00:17:39] most important is that it will give them a social license to operate throughout the country. The second reason is that the president preserved the ability to make those kinds of investments and be tax advantaged for doing it in the one big beautiful bill. So if you put these two things together, I think step one is you go into a local area, you tell the local residents, we'll pay for the water, we'll make sure there's minimal
[00:18:06] noise, and we'll make sure that we take absolutely no discount. we pay our fair share even if it means paying more than you do for electricity. That's step one. But now I think we need to go in with step two. Here is a bunch of money that we have allocated to go and fit your house out with solar, with storage, with next generation heat pumps, with a modern set of infrastructure so that you are totally resilient and now you are
[00:18:32] completely ambivalent to what the grid has to do in reaction to all the demand that's coming. >> Yeah. I had um Zack Dell from uh base power on this week in startups I don't know a year ago now and we were talking about this and I said hey why wh why why wouldn't you just and and what they do is not solar because solar takes time you got to rip up your roof there there's some complications with solar you need to have the space for it it's
[00:18:56] expensive to install they just put a battery like a little R2-D2 tube outside your house they fill up that battery when energy is cheap and plentiful and they deploy it when it's expensive and the grid has challenges and he said those kind of deals are in the works or the discussions were happening and that was back then. So this is a really easy win-win type situation. Shimath you're describing Sachs this feels like
[00:19:19] proactive now thoughtful ways to communicate to the populace of hey the AI boom is here and you have concerns we're going to get ahead of them. So have you been involved in any of these discussions? Is are you talking with Chris Wright and like overlapping in terms of the um communication here or is it just a free market solution? >> Well, Jason, the the president's been ahead of the curve on this issue really
[00:19:42] since the beginning of the administration. I don't know if you recall, but he said that he was going to make AI companies into the biggest power companies because he understood that the data centers that they needed required a lot of power, but they were going to stand up their own power generation and they wouldn't just draw off the grid. And so, I think this understanding has always been there. When I've talked to
[00:20:02] the hyperscalers, they also tell me that their plan is not to draw from the grid. It's to basically set up their own power generation behind the meter. It's called collocation. And in fact, I think ultimately this will bring down rates for residential consumers for two reasons. One is that when the data centers create their own power, they can sell back or donate back to the grid when they connect. They don't have to
[00:20:27] connect to the grid, but once they do, they can donate back. And then second, there's a number of fixed costs in power generation. It's not just variable, right? There's these large fixed costs. And so as you increase scale, those fixed costs get amvertised over a greater amount of supply. And that brings down the variable rate, basically the the metered rate for everybody. So scale is good. And I think the deceptive
[00:20:52] nature of the criticism here by like Bernie Sanders and people like that is what they say is well we just have to shut down all the data centers period when the real problem here is that he and others like him have overregulated power generation to death so that it's too hard to set up net new power. Right? I mean if power generation were easier there wouldn't need to be a limit on what the data centers could use. They
[00:21:16] could just bring their own power. So that is the obvious solution here and it's good to see Microsoft make this pledge and sort of formalize that. I think all the other hyperscalers will do that. Again, it was never part of their plan, I think, to draw on the grid for their power needs. They always, I think, understood that they'd have to stand up their own power. And the issue is just regulations getting in the way of that.
[00:21:38] And just one final point on this is that there are a bunch of regulations by FK for example that interfere with the ability to do collocation. Collocation is when you put a data center and the power generation next to each other or you do them together. And Chris Wright, the secretary of energy has directed FK to make a bunch of changes to make behind the meter and collocation easier so that these data centers can stand up
[00:22:04] their own power. And the only reason that hasn't happened is just because of the usual bureaucratic delays. But that is well on its way to happening. >> All right. >> Does that make sense? >> Yeah, it makes total sense. And you know, if we start thinking about incentives, incentives obviously matter. And I don't think a lot of people know this, but and I think I talked about it when we were talking about nuclear
[00:22:26] freeird in France. the people who live near the Avine uh I think is how it's pronounced uh reactor they pay 0.1% tax versus the 12% regional average and so they and then I think the UK has also talked about the sort of danger zone or uh proposals and payments you can give people a discount to incentivize them and reward them giving them free local electricity etc for living near a nuclear power plant that hasn't come up
[00:22:56] here in the United States and there's been a lot of of FUD, fear, uncertainty, and doubt Freeberg around these data centers. People throwing around a lot of talking points. I think you and I discussed offline the the misperceptions about water usage and that the water usage is largely recycled in these data centers. Um, if you know about that, would you would you inform the audience about that piece of data? >> Well, we got a lot of water. It just
[00:23:23] goes around in a circle, so I don't think that's an issue. uh but clean water and the cost of clean water increasing for a local population is the misperception there. >> The modern cooling systems these data centers the water recirculates and transports the heat out of the data center. So it's not like the water is used up. I guess there's a separate type of evaporative cooling that does use up some water, but modern data centers
[00:23:49] don't use that. So, the water issue is really a a total hoax, and it's really kind of a subhoax of this larger affordability issue. I'm not saying that affordability isn't an issue, but it was caused by Biden's 9% inflation, and now Democrats are trying to make it an issue. When it comes to the power for data centers, again, this all comes back to the fact that the regulations make it too hard to generate net new power. So
[00:24:14] again, scaling demand on its own not a problem if you also scale supply of electricity. In fact, it brings down prices for everyone because scale creates economies of scale. >> Yeah. And 90% of that water is reused and there's closed water loop systems. And >> here's my pitch. I think the president should try to create a >> three, four, 500 billion dollar tax equity fund and help eliminate the electricity costs of 50 to 100 million
[00:24:43] American households. >> Amazing. >> Well, here's the let me let me give you the math. So, we consume in this country about 4 trillion kilowatt hours of electricity. Average price is 18 cents a kilowatt hour. So it's about call it $750 billion of spend on electricity every year. Onethird of that 250 billion is residential consumption. 2/3 of that 500 billion is industrial and commercial consumption. Theoretically you could increase the
[00:25:16] price on industrial and commercial consumption by call it 50%. And make all residential electricity in the United States free. If you're a residential user, you get a cap of free electricity every month. And if you use more than that cap, you get charged. But below that cap, you're free based on whatever square footage of your house, I don't know, whatever. And then on the commercial and industrial side, the
[00:25:40] reason you would then have an incentive to build private power systems would be that you can bring your cost down. And instead of centralizing all of this with the utilities, what it can do is it can force a market demand for industrial and commercial users to build their own power systems, which would increase overall electricity supply in the United States. The data centers are the tip of the iceberg. But if you make this a
[00:26:04] panindustrial problem, then all of the industrial companies would have to take this path. The problem is it doesn't change the net consumption model. If you actually go to solar and storage for every 15 million homes, you take a terowatt hour of demand off the grid. That's an extra terowatt hour that you don't need to build, but you can't build that quickly. So, the reason why I like solar and storage is you make these
[00:26:25] folks so self-reliant. Now, all of a sudden, we're actually catching up to China faster than we would have otherwise. >> You're talking about residentials. >> Yeah. Your idea, which is a good one, the problem is they're still using grid services, >> right? Or they don't have to. That's the point. Like if they end up the industrial users. Well, the industrial users will then invest in solar systems. >> My point is today the homeowners are
[00:26:48] using >> there is no solution to not using. >> Yeah. If the if the industrial price goes up by 50% you've now created a market force to drive them to make the investment particularly if you if you deregulated. >> I understand the math but my point is >> and you get this and you get this first year capex depreciation. So they actually get a benefit and instead of putting all of the >> guys you're talking through each other.
[00:27:10] Chimat's point is that you're still taxing the grid. His proposal adds another layer to what you're saying. So he's in agreement with you, Freeberg. Hey, yeah, let's have the businesses pay a little extra and and not or and let's have them take off the grid to reduce the grid. Well, there's 80 million freestanding homes in the United States and it's about 15k to put these battery packs in like base power zooing. You can
[00:27:33] probably get it down to 10. And if you just do back back of the envelope math, you're talking about a trillion dollars. So basically for a hundred billion, you could do 10% of the country. If you were to do that over some time period, we would have we would stop worrying about the grid, I think, is Chimoth's point. And you could do it with battery. You could do solar. >> Well, you would not stop worrying about
[00:27:51] the grid. But Jason, just to refine what you're saying because you're directionally very right. The consumers would feel less of these issues. And instead of all of us worrying how to underwrite terowatt hours to catch up to China, we actually get a two for one. The consumer homes don't have that anxiety anymore. They don't have the bill. And because they're generating their own power, they're off the grid. And now what that means is that extra
[00:28:17] terowatt hour can actually go to the commercial and industrial applications including these data centers. And you're right, Freeberg, we should raise their tariffs. I just think it's a lot it's a lot more complicated and a lot more expensive to ask everyone more complicated. Okay, listen. None of this is free. None of it's free. However, we have such an amazing opportunity with AI that it makes sense to do this. That I
[00:28:39] think is the big picture. AI is such a huge opportunity. There's so much invested. Why wouldn't you do this is the question. And if we're want to live in the age of abundance and we want to bring the bottom half of the country up and we want affordability, where do people spend their money? food, groceries, their rent, and their electricity and the utilities. So, we if we want to figure out a direct way to do
[00:28:59] this, and for all the hippie- dippies who care about the environment and clean energy, this is a win there as well. And it doesn't come out of Americans pockets and their taxes. It comes out of corporations which are printing money. If you want to talk about redistribution of wealth, this is a way for the great American max corporations to give something back to Americans. And you talked about this, right, off maybe
[00:29:22] three or four weeks ago that hey, maybe there would be some way for great corporations to do great things for Americans. The fact that Americans don't think about their water bill that much is a is a mitzvah. It's a great thing. Now, if they didn't have to think about electricity, wow, amazing. >> We will look back and I think that we will want to have seen these big companies who are unbelievably profitable step up on behalf of American
[00:29:43] homeowners. >> Some might say obscenely profitable. I just think I just think it's a it's a great >> mission to the moon style framing to say what if we could make all residential electricity free in the United States >> and over the next decade if we can do that not only do we help Americans with their wallet but we actually can enable a distributed investment scheme in American energy production and we force
[00:30:10] the corporations to step up and do their part rather than centralize it. So I I just like the framing of making this whole thing free, making residential electricity free in the US as a core benefit. >> The other thing is we've talked about this, I've mentioned this a couple times before. I think the single biggest dollar short, it's not clear when that one will be able to make will be on these utilities. Because if any version
[00:30:36] of what we just talked about happens and all of a sudden you have private homeowners that are their own utility and then Freeberg CNI being their own power utility, what do the utilities do? What does all this capex go to? How do they pay back their bonds? What happens to their rate base? This is a huge economic question that I think will come up if even a small modeicum of what we just talked about materializes.
[00:31:03] >> Yeah. and uh you know people having their first x number of kilowatt hours a year free. You know obviously you're not going to have unlimited free. You know that that's going to be pretty transformative for America. It's aspirational. We all like the idea. I like it. Okay. Open AAI has struck another compute deal. This one's worth over 10 billion. OpenAI is buying compute capacity from Cerebras. That's C E R E B R A S. They committed to
[00:31:29] purchase up to 750 megawatts over 3 years. Cerebrus like Rock makes specialized chips for AI inference. Cerebras is in talks to raise 1 billion at a $22 billion valuation according to reports and they're expected to IPO this year potentially in the next couple of months. Sam Waltman's an investor in the company. So, uh he knows it well and >> is he really stop? >> I I mean it's in the notes. It's in the notes.