[00:00:00] No text [Music] I was just sitting here contemplating about like how I'm going to pay back all my student loans. I've applied to over 300 jobs. I don't have a job. Student loan debt just reached an all-time high $1.48 trillion as of June of this year. A historic drop in US college enrollment. We exist to educate, to teach you how to think, not what to think. We'd better be thinking about big transitions or transformations, if I can use the word, because um there's a lot
[00:00:31] of new competition coming into our market. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Berkeley Chancellor Rich Lions and Dartmouth President Seon Bo. [Applause] Hello, sir. Thank you for joining us. Hi. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Hi. Hi. Nice to see you. Good to see you. Hi. Good to see you. Hi. Thanks for being here. Nice to meet you in person. Nice to see you. Yes. Go Bears. Go Bears. Go Bears. All right. All right. All right. Big Green, let's not forget you, Big
[00:01:07] Green. Okay. So, um, what an interesting time to lead a university in America. So many things to talk about, but I wanted to start with uh the premise that No text student loan debt seems to be a challenge on the young population, the emerging working population today. At the same time, government research funding seems to be getting cut back and there seems to be questions about the administrative overhead fees that are getting paid. What is the business model
[00:01:39] of the university today? The revenue and the expenses and what does it look like going forward from your point of view and how are you planning for that? Let's just start with that broad picture about the business model and how it's changing. There's a lot to that question. I'll I'll start and will certainly have lots to contribute. um you know that when we at the top level if we think about you know how do we sustainably provide the
[00:02:04] fundamental and translational research that we're so good at that we're built for the education really transformative educational experiences that many of you have had in these great universities um so you know one way to think about that is on the research side if there is less federal funding coming in over time and I think that's that's a good bet uh can we partner more with with industry are there other sources? Is there way to gear philanthropy even more toward the kinds of research that we need to make
[00:02:33] sure we're doing? So, so we are thinking about what that bundle that funding model looks like on the research side and on the education side as well. You mentioned debt and and an issue that that's become. I think what you would find whether at Dartmouth or at Berkeley that if you're coming to one of these institutions from a lower income family, uh you're probably paying no tuition and many of them are leaving with very little debt. So, um, to say there's all
[00:02:58] these higher education institutions and then to talk about averages, I think you you would be surprised at how much support lower income students are getting. Yeah. And I would just add to that that I don't think education is one-sizefits-all. And at a place like Dartmouth, which is I would talk about it as a different kind of ivy, it is cheaper to go to Dartmouth if you're lower or middle income now than it was 10 years ago. And that's because of the
[00:03:22] philanthropy that we receive from amazing alums and families. And that is what we want to do. We want to make institutions a place where anyone can go regardless of background. Bring the best and brightest together and send them off without a huge debt burden. We package without loans. A third of our students go for free and they come out on average making more than they would otherwise if they hadn't gone to a school like
[00:03:46] Dartmouth. But I think it comes down to the institutions having some responsibility for pushing out students and making sure that they're not serving them in education that then they can't find jobs in. And so as we think about loan burdens and others, I do believe the institutions have a responsibility to their students. And I think we have to do a lot more in talking about ROI than we do right now. So just ask one follow up to that. Does
[00:04:10] that mean that we have too many universities in the United States and they charge too much generally? So you guys are leading two of the top institutions in the United States. Are all of the second tier, the third tier, the fourth tier that are providing perhaps negative ROI on the cost of their education, do they need to kind of get shut down or reformed or what's the future of that? I think if you aren't thinking about the ROI and that is part of what you're
[00:04:34] delivering, it's a fair question to ask. And I also think that we've pushed too many people to think that college is the end all beall. There are different ways to be successful in this country. I certainly think there's a place for an amazing elite education like Dartmouth if we are teaching students how to think and not what to think. But the idea that everyone needs to go to a 4-year college or university, I think that's outdated. Let me ask you about uh different
[00:05:00] degrees and loans and the risk that you take. I mean, $70,000 a year tuition, but you're not on the hook for it. students who take these loans are on the hook for it and their brains are not fully developed. Would you I can confirm this. Okay. Well, the neuroscience data suggests that your friend text isn't developed. Boys a little bit later than girls, by the way. Yeah, you can't I did okay. Um I went to forom. I did okay. Um the point I'm
[00:05:31] trying to make here is shouldn't you the university be on the hook for these loans? And shouldn't you be responsible for the outcomes for these students? And would you be uh in support of having the loans and the amount of the loans match the desiraability of the degree and its ability to monetize in the you know postgraduation or said differently would you guys underwrite the loans? Yeah, look I think we do at Dartmouth because we don't our students are
[00:06:02] packaged without loans. They don't take out loans and in fact for a student uh in a middle inome family lower and middle- inome family it's about 5,000 a year to go to Dartmouth. So we do underwrite in that way. Now you asked the question about other institutions where students are coming out with high debt and low ROI. I think it is fair to ask what share of responsibility the institution should take and I do think that that's part of the reforms that we
[00:06:26] need to think about in higher ed writ low. So you're in favor of it. I'm in favor of the institutions having some responsibility but and at Dartmouth we take that responsibility very seriously. Do you think they should take responsibility? Should you take responsibility for the outcomes? Well, well, the word responsibility. So, I'm I'm an economist. Is is is a responsibility the liab the financial liability at the end of the day or as people have been saying, look, if if we are not providing an economic pathway
[00:06:50] for our students on average at Berkeley, you're talking about Berkeley now or or Dartmouth um you know that that people will stop coming and they will stop taking loans. So, that market mechanism is working pretty well as it is and and we are producing really wonderful outcomes. I think the earlier question about what about the you more than thousand 1,000 higher ed institutions in this country and I think there is pressure on the whole system but um we
[00:07:15] we are certainly making sure we have a brand new program called social sciences career readiness internship program and so we are launching lots of new things to make sure that we are providing that kind of support. I'd push back and say I don't think the market's working exceptionally well because I think students are coming out overburdened with loans without the kind of job prospects that we have responsibility. What would happen what would happen if
[00:07:40] we ended the federal student loan program? Yeah. I mean I think it's a interesting thing to think about. I what I don't want to do is throw the baby out with the bathwater and that there are student loan programs that are really helpful to some students in terms of being able to go to the school they want and to get the education they want. Is uh is DEI the bathwater? I let me let me ask you guys actually a
[00:08:03] No text question. What is the correlation between DEI and scholarship? Is there one? I don't think having a diversity of thought and thinking about merit are mutually exclusive. I think that's a false dichotomy. Okay. We were the first Ivy League to bring the SAT back uh at Dartmouth and many of our peers followed. And the reason is we looked at the data and what we sh found was that it was a great equalizer in finding students from lower income
[00:08:28] backgrounds and higher income backgrounds who are succeeding in something that's less actually susceptible to financial input like letters of wreck and what you did for the summer and a better way for us to find lower income students who are excelling where they are but maybe don't have the prep or the background. So I I think it's a false that they're mutual. There was no impact to the quality of the actual scholarship, what the professors taught, the language that was
[00:08:55] used, all this concept of like microaggressions, all this stuff that got in the way of teaching math and science. Do you don't think that happened? No, I think that we have to focus on our core subjects and merit. But I think the idea that I believe in diversity. I think we should have a diversity of people at the d the table from lived from lived experience to political ideology. I think we have better outcomes if we can sit together and push
[00:09:19] at each other and I have conservative views on my campus and more liberal views on my campus and I have students who come from veteran families and students who come from the middle of the country and students who come from the coast. Bringing people together with different perspectives allowing them to push at each other you get the best outcomes. And do you notice that the schools veered away from that or
[00:09:39] did we spend any period of time I'm just curious veering away from what you just said or no? Yeah. Is there nothing to see here or is everything of course no I mean I think I'd be the first one to tell you that I think higher education has a responsibility to reform from within. What is the reform that what happened? I think we lost sight of what our mission was. We're educational institutions. We're not political institutions. We're not social advocacy organizations. How did it happen? Thank you. How did it
[00:10:04] happen? And just to say when we lose sight of that mission, people don't trust what we produce, whether it's the students or the knowledge. How did it happen? You know, there there's a lot of theories for what exactly went wrong. I think having strong leadership and being clear about what your values are is a really important point part of this. I spent much of my academic career at the University of Chicago and I think that's a place that was very clear about the
[00:10:30] fact that institutional neutrality is the way to get the best outcomes that it's we don't shout down speakers that we don't set up encampments that declare a space for one ideology those are all things we've been pushing at Dartmouth and we are excited about where we are going and the outcomes but we have work to do Rich how should I same at Berkeley same at How we doing at Berkeley, Rich? Uh, hey, no, beware the caricature problem because Berkeley undergraduates
[00:11:02] produce more funded new businesses than the undergraduates at any other universities. We lift more people further up the economic ladder than any other university in the country. And so, so, so the caricature problem is very real here. Berkeley, I have been saying very publicly that we need to I'm agreeing with what she just said that we need to move in the direction of view of of institutional neutrality. I'm talking about viewpoint diversity all the time. Do we have some getting better to do?
[00:11:30] You better believe we do. We were thinking we were so tolerant. I think we weren't very tolerant of viewpoint diversity. And we're we have a new course called Openness to opposing views. It got launched this summer. 5,000 people have signed up for it. We have something called the Berkeley Liberty Initiative. It is exploding on campus. Do we have people on all sides of the spectrum? We sure do, but people keep pointing to one side of the
[00:11:52] spectrum. It's like, look what's going on at today's Berkeley. Um, how should Chimamath or I explain to our Asian daughters or sons if they don't make it into one of these schools because you have to um admit somebody for diversity who got lower grades and a lower SAT score. How do we explain that? We don't admit in that way. We're looking for school students with great scores, great grades, and who have grit and ambition
[00:12:25] and allow us to bring a class together where people can push and get make better ideas for the it's sorry it's it's been the law since 1996 in the state of California. We can't use race or gender or affirmative action. It's literally illegal. We get audited for this all the time. So, if that's what you meant by your question, we don't do it. And it's part of the California master plan for higher education that a third of our incoming class every year are community college transfers. They're grittier,
[00:12:52] they're older, they're more firstgen. If that's the diversity you're worried about, then I have a different talking broader not just to your universities, but to what we've seen at other universities. Perhaps Harvard would fall into this category or others. And you know, we do think about that. What are we explaining to our kids in terms of or maybe the general question what Jason is trying to say is what message does that give the broader American student
[00:13:17] and the broader American parent about what is actually happening in higher ed when a a case like that gets litigated to the Supreme Court. Yeah. Look, again, in a place of viewpoint diversity, you can have different views on affirmative action and we have different views of that on our campus. Our goal and as we've always done at Dartmouth is we're looking for the best and brightest students and that's not only just a test score or a
[00:13:42] grade because that doesn't tell the whole story but we're certainly bringing students together based on all of the things they do and we're not picking students to fit any sort of quota or system and the University of California has effectively been aligned with that decision since 1997. Tell us about the growth of No text administrators versus professors. There's another sort of common maybe it's a accurate statement or a
[00:14:06] misconception that um many of these elite institutions in America have been overroought by administrators and they get in the way. They gum up the system. They have all these ideas. They turn out to be idiots. Ideas are idiotic. Um that's a theory. Um have you seen that play out at your two fine institutions or nothing to see there either? Do you want to go first? I I will start um we for years and we have further to go but we have been talking about bureaucratic burden. We
[00:14:41] actually have an initiative and we just call it bureaucratic burden and there is too much of it at Berkeley. Berkeley is a very very large organization with lots and lots of people. So as we think about how do we make some of the hard decisions for for making things faster um and we've been working very very hard at that. clock speed of the world uh is is is going up so fast and the clock speed of these institutions pace for change that gap is widening and we need
[00:15:07] to get better at getting better. So I promise you with AI and many other things, it's like well academic advising, how is that going to change with a AI? It'll change a lot. We're going to always need human academic adviserss in my view, but that world is going to change a lot. How do you navigate what's on campus? Last point is, you know, when you talk about the mental health of our students, I think if you went back to when you and I were undergrads at our universities, the idea
[00:15:31] that the university would would help people with me like scaled mental health services, they they weren't there. they are there now. So you could say you shouldn't be doing that but the expectations of what we are providing have risen quite a bit. Yeah. And I'll say that I think it's a totally fair question and we always need to be thinking about moving our resources more towards the academic enterprise. I mean Dartmouth is a place where you're in a classroom with a
[00:15:55] faculty member and six to 20 students. It's a very special thing that doesn't happen at all institutions. But we also have a lot more compliance that we have to deal with that's come in from government over the years that we have to staff up to to deal with. And I like the idea of rethinking that relationship in a way that allows us all to do our work better. No text Let's talk about for one second um what President Trump has done with his um
[00:16:19] settlements with Colombia and the proposed ongoing thing with Harvard. There's going to be some settlement. just walk us through what the implications of that are and the cascade effect and the waterfall as it trickles through the you know to other institutions and whether you guys will have to be party to something or what that means. Look, I believe in the fierce independence of our educational institutions and I worry that if we are