[00:27:40] Fair enough. But I I predict AI will play an important role and I predict that the teachers unions are going to fight tooth and nail from seeing AI show up and it's going to challenge our ability to kind of provide this advantage for our students. And meanwhile in other countries around the world particularly looking across the Pacific things are going to be very different than they are here. What is the conversation with the teachers
[00:28:04] unions who are so politically connected who can be so troublesome and we saw this recently with the long shoreman's strike that happened where they didn't want to have automation that would provide faster lower cost unloading and loading of the docks and so on. it made it really hard. What's going to happen with respect to the teachers unions and their ability to kind of move through this accelerating transformation that's going to be underway?
[00:28:26] Well, I'll I'll start. I think categories of labor across the economy are going to be under threat. Um, so it's it's easy to start with thinking about organized labor, but not organized labor is going to be terrifically under stress. And I think that a a lot of people are going to be pushing back on on what's what's about to happen. So I I think that's that's the larger frame. It's really how jobs across white collar. In fact, I think a lot more
[00:28:58] unrepresented jobs are going to disappear as a result of AI than represented jobs over the next 10 years. Um we don't know. But I I I think o overframing in terms of representation, at least for me, is missing really the core issue here. No text There's been a lot of talk um about recent graduates having a hard time uh finding jobs and that for at least male students, the degree versus non-deree in terms of unemployment has now shown no
[00:29:30] difference. It used to be if you had a degree, you had roughly double the chance of getting a job. Are you seeing that in the ground? I know you have elite institutions, but are you starting to see that even at your incredible universities and are you concerned? Yeah, I mean I think again we have to talk about what the future of work is. We haven't seen that at Dartmouth. Our students are succeeding in getting jobs, but again we're not just teaching
[00:29:53] students how to code. Everyone who gets an engineering degree also takes classes across the sciences, across humanities. We're teaching them how to think across difference and in in many ways which I think are these uniquely human skills I hope that will be important for being a leader. What's on that small list of uniquely human skills or attributes that you most want to get into those students? I really do believe that the ability to
[00:30:20] listen and have a conversation and speak face to face and have eye contact to have empathy to understand that even if I don't agree with you, you are a human. we have these things together and we're working towards some sort of positive democracy I would say is at the top of the list. We've been working with that with the two Davids. In fact, we've been working with that. It's a muscle. I think you can build it over time. They're getting there. Yeah. Look, there's there's no question
[00:30:45] I was talking to to an alum and somebody who's close uh very senior and and I said, "What what should be in our strategic plan?" And he said, "Keeping humanity relevant." If that's not a big deal, I I don't know what is. And as we think about the sorts of skills that we're going to need in our students, I think, you know, a sense of agency is is something that pops to mind for me. It's like a sense of agency. I kind of I I
[00:31:10] can act on the world. I'm not act purely acted upon and and it's partly my responsibility and that so goes so far beyond the way we think about education at least traditionally as mostly knowledge transmission. And and I think we can do that in our classrooms. we have some curriculum that they do perceive themselves as victims at times. Let me um let me maybe shift it for the last question uh and end maybe where we
[00:31:35] No text started to end. One of the things that has happened is that with the cost of of higher ed, there's been the emergence and the importance of endowments. And as these endowments have emerged, there's been a perception and then those things have been laid bare that there are side doors and back doors and all kinds of different ways in which to get into schools. The Varsity Blues thing is like a perfect example of just the manipulation
[00:32:00] of the system that just again to your point, people lose trust. um what role do endowments play? How much influence do they exert when it's good? Um when they can't fund a budget, what happens? Uh just walk us through that cycle where there's a perception that they could be doing more. Harvard's got a $55 billion endowment. Um but just walk us through that for each of your institutions, how reliant you guys are on this and and the impact it makes on you being able to be totally
[00:32:30] meritocratic. Yeah, I mean I will say very clearly that we are looking for the best and brightest students. Our endowment is a way that allows us to fund students regardless of their ability to pay and our financial aid we from our endowment hundreds of millions of dollars each year to support students so that they come out without loans and they're ready to go and that is because people believe in the institution. So it is a way an
[00:32:57] important way that private citizens give back to support what they're doing. And I think it is an extremely important to what we do. It also funds our research. There's a lot of talk about indirect costs and what those actually mean. We lose money on every research dollar we bring in. We spend our endowment to create the buildings, to create all of the compliance. You can't make discoveries in the middle of Main Street. You've got to do that in a scientific enterprise where we are
[00:33:24] putting the skin in the game. And I think it's great that people are giving back to be able to do that. But it doesn't drive our decisions. What I think of it is is a support to do the good work we need to do. Yeah. And if I may just add a little bit, I know we're out of time, but I think, you know, our endowment per student is is far far lower. And like can it's it's going into scholarships for our students and the accessibility. It's like what's the effective cost of
[00:33:46] these educations even with our lower lower prices. And also on the research end, right, we've got something called the innovative genomics institute. A lot of that was philanthropic capital that came in and went into an endowment and crisper comes out of it and some other things that are changing the world, right? So so it's really important that we have that kind of funding both on the education and research side and and I just say that there's multiple
[00:34:08] inputs into the system. I think the endowment is important. I think having a really robust partnership with government that makes sense is really important for the American innovations and discoveries that we're doing. And then for people who can pay the tuition, paying tuition is another aspect of that. But all of those come in to to try and create what we're trying to create. Before we wrap, we've um pointed out a lot of problems and challenges and left
[00:34:35] you guys in a kind of defense state. I I want to just give each of you an opportunity to talk about what you're excited about at the university that you're leading. Uh maybe just take a minute. What what gives you kind of optimism? What are you encouraged by? What are you looking forward to accomplishing? Uh as we kind of uh finish up the segment. Well, thanks. I'll start. You know, true of Dartmouth as it is for Berkeley. Uh we view these things, we hope you do, too, as some of society's most valuable
[00:34:59] assets. To what use shall we put them over the next decade? That's sort of what we've been entrusted with, right? And so if you said on the education front um for example economic mobility right what would it look like to double down on economic mobility when a third of our our students are already transfer students from from junior from from community colleges it's sort of like wow could we get even better at that I think
[00:35:21] we can and we can do better at that right and as we think about the research it's like what are these fundamental seismic shifts you're thinking about the biology revolution or the AI revolution or or planetary and human health I mean these are things that you I believe we all need these institutions to be contributing to massively and that's part of what's going into these strategic plans. So um I think you should be rooting for us.
[00:35:46] We are rooting for you. Yeah. And I would say a few things. One uh Dartmouth has uh the most rural academic medical center in the country. We serve a huge population of people not connected to the institution. And I'm excited about how we double down and make health systems better. I think that's such an important part of what we do as universities. And the second thing I'll say is that I am very excited about
[00:36:14] our students. Just one other thing that Dartmouth is doing that is so impressive. We have one of the only bipartisan studentrun political unions in the country co-chared by the Dartmouth Conservatives and the Dartmouth Democrats. And those students are changing the culture at institutions. Last year we had a debate between Kellyanne Conway and Donna Brazil. We had uh Cornell West and Robbie George. They're dealing with DEI,
[00:36:37] immigration. They are talking about the issues and putting it out there and they're creating a culture where it's cool to have conversations and be uncomfortable instead of shout each other down. We should be excited about that because they are the next leaders of our free world. Awesome. Thank you both. You took on tough roles. We appreciate you being here today. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Thank you. Thank you so much. That was awesome. Appreciate it.