[00:14:06] misconception that um many of these elite institutions in America have been overroought by administrators and they get in the way. They gum up the system. They have all these ideas. They turn out to be idiots. Ideas are idiotic. Um that's a theory. Um have you seen that play out at your two fine institutions or nothing to see there either? Do you want to go first? I I will start um we for years and we have further to go but we have been talking about bureaucratic burden. We
[00:14:41] actually have an initiative and we just call it bureaucratic burden and there is too much of it at Berkeley. Berkeley is a very very large organization with lots and lots of people. So as we think about how do we make some of the hard decisions for for making things faster um and we've been working very very hard at that. clock speed of the world uh is is is going up so fast and the clock speed of these institutions pace for change that gap is widening and we need
[00:15:07] to get better at getting better. So I promise you with AI and many other things, it's like well academic advising, how is that going to change with a AI? It'll change a lot. We're going to always need human academic adviserss in my view, but that world is going to change a lot. How do you navigate what's on campus? Last point is, you know, when you talk about the mental health of our students, I think if you went back to when you and I were undergrads at our universities, the idea
[00:15:31] that the university would would help people with me like scaled mental health services, they they weren't there. they are there now. So you could say you shouldn't be doing that but the expectations of what we are providing have risen quite a bit. Yeah. And I'll say that I think it's a totally fair question and we always need to be thinking about moving our resources more towards the academic enterprise. I mean Dartmouth is a place where you're in a classroom with a
[00:15:55] faculty member and six to 20 students. It's a very special thing that doesn't happen at all institutions. But we also have a lot more compliance that we have to deal with that's come in from government over the years that we have to staff up to to deal with. And I like the idea of rethinking that relationship in a way that allows us all to do our work better. No text Let's talk about for one second um what President Trump has done with his um
[00:16:19] settlements with Colombia and the proposed ongoing thing with Harvard. There's going to be some settlement. just walk us through what the implications of that are and the cascade effect and the waterfall as it trickles through the you know to other institutions and whether you guys will have to be party to something or what that means. Look, I believe in the fierce independence of our educational institutions and I worry that if we are
[00:16:43] swaying in one direction or another based on who is in office, then we don't have the trust of the American people. And I think we failed in some ways to show that we could self-regulate and do that ourselves. But the goal in my mind is get to get back to a place where it's clear that universities don't aren't political organizations, aren't taking a position that we are focused on bringing the best and brightest to go out and
[00:17:09] contribute to our democracy and we can do that ourselves. Rich. Yeah. And I I think that you know if you look at trust and confidence and when it started to diminish across all kinds of institutions but including higher ed you know that that predated by quite a bit the the election which was less than a year ago. So I don't want to confound things where they really shouldn't be confounded. Why have we been losing trust and confidence to grossly
[00:17:35] oversimplify its cost its career and its culture and we could go into each of those and talk about it. the cost thing came up, you know, are the career opportunities there? And by culture, it's sort of have things got too progressive or not tolerant enough of viewpoint diversity? Those are all reasonable things to talk about. But um so I think I think part of the questions that are being asked in under this administration and even before that,
[00:18:00] many of them it's like, yeah, we need to be more reflective. I I just said I think there's too little viewpoint diversity. Let's go to let's go to culture. David, you know, you had a um a great career at Stanford and that was during the politically correct era and then we saw safe spaces trigger words and students feeling they were being harmed by words. I'm curious what your thoughts are on culture on campus from your perspective
[00:18:24] having lived through it because this does seem to reemerge every couple of decades. Well, political correctness never ended. It just got renamed. I mean, I think they renamed it woke. There may have been some other things in between. Um, you know, Peter Teal and I wrote an article for Stanford magazine back in, I think it was 1995, so 30 years ago, called the case against affirmative action. And it was basically making the
[00:18:49] case for completely color-blind admissions, having it be strictly based on merit and not taking race into consideration. And obviously that argument did not prevail and win the day because we had the Supreme Court case a couple of years ago that basically said that I think it was at least Harvard, I don't want to speak for every college, but basically was still engaging in racial discrimination. And so I think
[00:19:12] you know that article or that argument it clearly was losing in practice for 30 years until the Supreme Court reached that decision. Um, so I think this is why there's a lot of skepticism on these issues and I think you have a wave of presidents and I think leadership matters coming to the forefront and talking about what we need to do in this space. At my inauguration two years ago I just finished my second year and I'm the third longest serving Ivy president right now. Um, just a side note, there's
[00:19:44] been a bit of turnover a little bit. So, tell us like did you watch the Claudine Gay testimony and what did you think when you were watching that train wreck happen? Yeah. What was going on in the group chat while it was hurdling? Yeah, the Ivy group chat. Ivy group was brick wall. Look, I mean, I think we have a responsibility to be different kinds of campuses. And the testimony, I think, was an outcome of being a campus that wasn't protecting
[00:20:12] the people, wasn't inclusive, and wasn't calling balls and strikes when we need to. And we've been very clear at Dartmouth that we value free expression, but your free expression can't rob others, which means no shouting speakers down and no taking over parts of space and declaring it for one ideology. That's not free expression. It's just John Stewart Mill's philosophy of spheres of influence just don't
[00:20:36] intersect with others. But let me sorry, let me just ask one. No, I just want to follow. Rich, isn't the like best part of Berkeley shouting over the speakers? [Laughter] I'm trying to get through traffic over there sometimes and you've got a thousand students on the freeway. It's like kind of the tradition. There's a difference between protest protest protest is fine speech. I think that's a really important
[00:21:00] distinction and it's really important for leaders to be clear. Protest is fine. I have protests outside my office all the time. I have students chalking messages. That's fine. But the problem is is when one person's free speech takes precedence over another. And nobody's disagreeing with that. The Heckler's veto is something we talk a lot about. We are coming down on people. It's not appropriate. Right? So people are outspoken. People are you know
[00:21:23] that's part of Berkeley's tradition. I will often say to people free speech university hundreds of ways and places to express your free speech rights and no more tents and no more blocking say their gate. So it's sort of like look we we need parameters that help this to be as constructive as possible. But the John Stewart Mill Marketplace for for ideas, we're trying to keep it as open as we can. And and that is something I'm just going to I worry about the idea for
[00:21:48] our faculty and our community. The idea that we're going into a world where there are acceptable questions and unacceptable questions. That's a bad problem. That's 1984. But going upstream, and I just want to No text go upstream with you guys for a second. Where's this coming from? And what's going on in K through2? Yeah. I think we don't talk about K through2 enough. I think we really have to go back. Our students are landing on
[00:22:10] our campus without having civics, without having practice engaging in difficult conversations. I mean, I think we really have to move backwards and not just think about the university setting because we're getting them much later. And for the we train all of our students at Dartmouth go through Dartmouth dialogues to learn how to have conversations with people you disagree with. I believe it's like a muscle. You have to train it through practice. Are they showing up basically just
[00:22:33] unprepared? A lot of them through COVID didn't have these skills. And we've seen this in different ways where you at one point when we were in school, if you had a fight with someone, you'd have it face to face. Then it went to text messaging. Now it goes to you leaving a long voicemail on someone's a voice memo and then not even engaging. And if anyone who has teenagers out there, when I tell my 14-year-old to pick up the phone and call someone, what are you talking about? You know, we have to get those
[00:22:58] muscles back. And a university setting, a college setting is the place to do it. We're not just about knowledge transfer. We're about forming the identities of our to Freeberg's point though, I just want to ask the point of question. I think it came out today, but uh high schoolers are graduating woefully unprepared. It's not just the skills of debate. This is fundamental math, science, English, they
[00:23:19] can't read, they can't add, they can't write. What what is happening in our primary and secondary high school education system? What is broken there that's delivering these kids to you? so academically unprepared. I I I I understand emotionally, but let's just first address the first one. Why? I think they're they're both. And I mean, I'm not an expert in K through 12. I don't have all the answers there, but I'll say that one thing is that we're
[00:23:44] not getting rid of income gaps in in achievement in K through 12. Students come into kindergarten at very different levels depending on their parents income and they leave at those same levels. If we were doing something important and successful in terms of education in the US, we would see differences and changes there. And I think we have a lot of work to do to think through a K- through2 system that's not serving the entire Is there any lowhanging fruit there? Is it like having the ability to have more
[00:24:08] tutors, extending the school day to 5:00 p.m. having summer sessions? If you could as an, you know, educator and and somebody who works in this field, is there any lowhanging fruit that we could say, "Hey, President Trump, we need a, you know, 25 billion more dollars a year to do this." Yeah, I mean, it's a it's a great question. I would say one thing is making sure that we're putting good teachers in the classroom.
[00:24:34] School unions are a problem. What does good mean? Competent and able to teach at different grade levels and the ability to measure their outcome. Hold students accountable and push them forward. And my research before I became uh a college president, I study performance under stress and anxiety. So, it's been helpful the last few years. But one of my findings is around teachers uh especially in lower grades being really uh unprepared in terms of
[00:25:01] math competency and transferring that on to to young students. The teachers themselves don't know how to add. Well, I think there's a very No, I mean I think it but what's interesting is there's there's probably a very good teacher emerging which is AI. How are you guys thinking about whether higher education should even No text exist and what the role of higher education and classrooms and teachers and textbooks are in a world where I
[00:25:23] have a personal tutor available to me to walk me through the knowledge transfer at my own pace to think critically? AI seems to have the potential to play so much of the role of what higher education and even K- through2 education has played historically. Are you guys calculating for your strategic planning with AI and what does it do? Absolutely. Well, I'll start I'll start with that. Um, so my daughter just graduated 3 months ago. I have two kids.
[00:25:48] She just finished college and I'm astonished by how much she has developed and I think most parents would have a similar experience. And I think if you stripped out sort of the knowledge, the part that you could easily access with AI, she would still astonish me in how much she has developed. that's a residential university and all the interactions and all the things and the challenges and and and the the the overcoming them. And so, you know, the
[00:26:18] the idea people were predicting with with massive open online courses the death of universities 15 years ago. And I really think that when you start realizing that's what makes it so darn transformative and at least any AI I've seen so far is not getting close to what we're able to do. I think these uniquely human skills, there is such an important part of a residential community that allows that to come together. Um, I'm a
[00:26:46] big uh proponent of of how we think about integrating AI into what we're doing. Dartmouth actually was the birthplace of the term artificial intelligence in a 1956 summer conference where people got together and talked. We developed basic. We were uh the first institution to put it in all the math classes. I thinking with technology is so important, but there is a human element of developing young people 17 to 25 that universities really can excel
[00:27:17] at. And I think that's one of the reasons that the culture issue and the idea that we're teaching students what to think instead of how to think I think has hit such a an important point is because this is exactly what we should be doing. We should be thinking teaching those kind of critical skills that allow students not to be in a safe space but a brave space where they learn how to be uncomfortable and interact with others.
[00:27:40] Fair enough. But I I predict AI will play an important role and I predict that the teachers unions are going to fight tooth and nail from seeing AI show up and it's going to challenge our ability to kind of provide this advantage for our students. And meanwhile in other countries around the world particularly looking across the Pacific things are going to be very different than they are here. What is the conversation with the teachers
[00:28:04] unions who are so politically connected who can be so troublesome and we saw this recently with the long shoreman's strike that happened where they didn't want to have automation that would provide faster lower cost unloading and loading of the docks and so on. it made it really hard. What's going to happen with respect to the teachers unions and their ability to kind of move through this accelerating transformation that's going to be underway?
[00:28:26] Well, I'll I'll start. I think categories of labor across the economy are going to be under threat. Um, so it's it's easy to start with thinking about organized labor, but not organized labor is going to be terrifically under stress. And I think that a a lot of people are going to be pushing back on on what's what's about to happen. So I I think that's that's the larger frame. It's really how jobs across white collar. In fact, I think a lot more
[00:28:58] unrepresented jobs are going to disappear as a result of AI than represented jobs over the next 10 years. Um we don't know. But I I I think o overframing in terms of representation, at least for me, is missing really the core issue here. No text There's been a lot of talk um about recent graduates having a hard time uh finding jobs and that for at least male students, the degree versus non-deree in terms of unemployment has now shown no
[00:29:30] difference. It used to be if you had a degree, you had roughly double the chance of getting a job. Are you seeing that in the ground? I know you have elite institutions, but are you starting to see that even at your incredible universities and are you concerned? Yeah, I mean I think again we have to talk about what the future of work is. We haven't seen that at Dartmouth. Our students are succeeding in getting jobs, but again we're not just teaching
[00:29:53] students how to code. Everyone who gets an engineering degree also takes classes across the sciences, across humanities. We're teaching them how to think across difference and in in many ways which I think are these uniquely human skills I hope that will be important for being a leader. What's on that small list of uniquely human skills or attributes that you most want to get into those students? I really do believe that the ability to