[00:14:48] like a fast-paced world? Like, you know, golf became Liv. I mean, Liv really kind of changed the the face of golf. There's now baseball's obviously dead. I mean, MLB has been on the decline for years in the United States. Not saying anything negative about baseball. I'm just saying that the viewership is going down. No, no, no, no. You're you're But there's also these conversations about basketball, the NBA. I'll tell you this
[00:15:10] crazy anecdote. I I was a co-owner of the Warriors. I sold two years ago. A friend of mine, friend of ours is in the market for a sports team and he went to Europe to look at a bunch of soccer teams and then we were all having dinner and his bankers produced this study that showed exactly this problem which is young people their attention span is shrinking. As it shrinks there are certain sports they just cannot watch
[00:15:35] anymore. And it's totally correlated the negative viewership in baseball, the increase in the use of clips. So people are willing to watch baseball clips. They will not watch a baseball game to save their life. People will watch basketball clips. They won't watch basketball. The NBA's moving to clips. Yeah. And so it's this weird construction, but in some ways F1 is very set up for this already naturally, right? Do people don't really watch the
[00:15:58] whole sport as much as they want to watch clips. I'm guessing it's not that hour. How long is this race on sight? It's not that long. It's never been and it's not that long. I mean that's the thing about but you guys also have a lot of a lot of data telemetry like you can feed that kind of anxious mind and there's no breaks it just goes I'm not I'm not sure if you have a point there unfortunately but um but pretty
[00:16:25] diplomat I was just trying to move the conversation no what I can say is that our sport has like the highest engagement rates across all sports even comparing to NBA and everything um but why is that I think there's just a huge hype at the moment and maybe yes maybe okay Maybe a little bit. It is fast-pacing. There's there's incredible action scenes like thrilling action. There's huge crashes. Did you not want
[00:16:48] to get in the business given your knowledge and your experience? You didn't want to be in the because you you now have transitioned into venture capital. How did you make that decision versus working in the business of Formula 1? Oh, great question. Um because um yeah, that's a good qu. So, in Formula 1, what jobs would have been left for me now after driving would be for example running a team. But running a team is 24/7. Like you need full
[00:17:13] commitment. You need to move to the UK. All the teams are in the UK. It's a full life dedication. And I've been I've done that. Been there, done that. Now I want more freedom in my life to define my my calendar and everything and be at home more. And so that job for example would not be a possibility and not something I want to do. And then beyond that, yeah, you can be a driver manager, but even there you need full commitment. So tell
[00:17:37] tell us about this transition then to tech and investing and venture and what was that journey and what attracted you to that? I was always inspired by people like Elon Musk who obviously you talking about uh before and those achievements that you have this idea and then you achieve something which has impacts like millions of lives. I just found that fascinating. Um so I I always just wanted to pursue that path. So I started
[00:18:01] investing as an angel investor and now a second. Oh take it easy. Angel investing. What are you doing after the show? Did you ever read the book Angel? It's a phenomenal book in 12 languages. Yeah, I'll sign a copy book called Angel. It's 84 pages long. What were your first few deals? Uh 11 Labs, for example. Um Oh, good for you. Yeah, that's uh that's gone really well. Um how did you find that? Yeah. How did that How did that
[00:18:26] come about? I mean, I'm really putting an effort into this community as well. I'm spending a lot of time in in Silicon Valley meeting everybody and and also connecting to the European corporate landscape. So I'm bringing customers, revenues, connecting, building bridges cuz there's a unique angle that I can bring, you know, thanks to my sports past. So I've just built my way into it and built a reputation and then and then
[00:18:48] you start getting the opportunities. What themes, Nico, have you invested in that today you would not invest knowing what you know today? Not the ones that are Yeah, that's um the the flying taxis, the vitals, for example. Um yeah, Germany was leading the way on those. You have Joby, for example, Joby Aviation, which is probably currently best positioned in the US. Um but Germany was leading the way with two two
[00:19:14] horses in the race and and both of them have run into trouble. One is bankrupt, one was both bankrupt, I think. Um, so that's something that then in hindsight you of course if you had uh read the book, you would have known hardware is hard, right? I would have avoided that. You should have gotten that chapter. Get a highlighter out. Hardware is hard. Hardware is even harder now with the tariffs. I'm hearing now like I have a
[00:19:37] um I invested also in a cyber escooter here in New York called Infinite Machine and now with the tariffs because the supply chain is so concentrated on in in China um it's it's just it's a complete mess. Yeah. Nico, what about the political landscape in Europe? There was a pretty important election in Germany. It seemed to kind of go down the middle. What goes of Europe? What's happening in Europe? The investability of Europe, the
[00:20:01] ability to do business in Europe. What do European industrial businesses do? There's a ton of skill. There's a ton of cash. When you talk to those folks, what do you tell them? I know you're very, very bearish on Europe. You wouldn't put a dollar there, but uh is that correct? Well, no, for sweaters and wine, he puts much more than a dollar. That's true. It's pretty prolific. It's a really good question. I actually think industrials
[00:20:25] chargers, right? Yes. Industrials, I would industrials, I think there's tremendous skill. Yeah. outside of industrials I think it's hard. Yeah. So we have the we have the problems with regulatory frameworks being way too cumbersome. Um we have the geographic fragmentation in Europe which is very different to the US. Um politically it's it's really I mean quite in a bad place at the moment and so yeah I understand
[00:20:53] but at the same time as you said talent density is insane. The universities are some of the best in the world. So that's where our hope is in the next generation that's coming now. Stick to the Nordics. And the Nordics are very powerful. Yes. But Spotify a little bit. There's a lot of hope still. Yeah. Hey, what's your daily driver? Daily driver is a Porsche. A Porsche. And then when you're with your with your with your daughter, I don't
[00:21:19] know how old she is, but you ever like pull some tricks and like does she like, &quot;Hey, Dad.&quot; No. She shouts, &quot;Drive slowly, daddy.&quot; Really? I'm not I'm not allowed to drive fast with her. No. terrified, which is fine. Which is fine. You you don't want her to get into the family business. No, no, no. What? Okay. What are some investments that you're really excited by? Beyond uh 11 Labs, um
[00:21:40] there would be Applied Intuition, another one. Oh, great business where I'm uh where I'm in. That's a really really interesting company. It's a company that supplies software primarily to all the legacy car manufacturers that have not managed this transition to being software first like Tesla has shown the way. Um and this It's like scale AI for automotive in some ways, right? For part of the business. Yeah.
[00:22:03] Nico, you're going to fit right in. Have you learned to play poker yet? I'm a good poker player. You're a good poker player. We'll see you on Thursday. Excuse me. Hold on, Nico. Now you dec. Thanks for coming out. Thanks to our new bestie, Nico Rosberg, for joining us in Miami for F1. And thanks to you, the audience, for tuning in. If you want to come to our next event, it's the All-In Summit in Los Angeles, fourth
[00:22:29] year for All-In Summit. Go to all-in.com/events to apply. A very special thanks to our new partner, OKX, the new money app. OKX was the sponsor of the McLaren F1 team, which won the race in Miami. Thanks to Haidider and his team, an amazing partner and an amazing team. We really enjoyed spending time with you. And OKX launched their new crypto exchange here in the US. If you love All-In, go check them out. And
[00:22:55] a special thanks to our friends at Circle. They're the team behind USDC. Yes, your favorite stable coin in the world. USDC is a fully backed digital dollar redeemable one for one for USD. It's built for speed, safety, and scale. They just announced the Circle Payments Network. This is enterprisegrade infrastructure that bridges the gap between the digital economy and outdated financial reality. Go check out USDC for
[00:23:22] all your stable coin needs. And special thanks to my friends including Shane over at Poly Market, Google Cloud, Salana, and BVNK. We couldn't have done it without y'all. Thank you so much. Let your winners ride. Rainman said, &quot;We open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it.&quot; Queen of [Music] Besties are gone. That is my dog taking a notice in your driveway. Oh man, my habitasher will meet me up.
[00:24:06] We should all just get a room and just have one big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual tension that we just need to release somehow. Wet your feet. Be your feet. What? We need to get Mercury's [Music] back. I'm going all in.