[00:00:00] [Music] former F1 driver champion in 2016. He's getting into the venture business. Please welcome Nico. They started the season with 20 drivers and they would end the season with only 18 of them left. Wow. What was the craziest [ __ ] you've ever been involved in? Well, my my rival was my teammates. So, unfortunately, it really becomes like an enemy in a way. What were your first few deals? 11 laps, for example. Holy [ __ ]
[00:00:24] Good for you. This used to be an extremely dangerous sport. You had people dying every year in these tiny little cars with no roll cages, etc. But over time, it's become incredibly safe. The number of people dying went from, you know, a couple dozen a year in the ' 50s, '60s, '7s, and now it's gotten incredibly safe. How scary is it to drive in those cars? And how do you get over that fear of death? First of all, hello everybody. That's a
[00:00:56] pretty That's a pretty intense start to the to the conversation. I just show Good job interviewing Jacob. World team world best. I I I got to get right to it. It's like set the mood. How are you still alive? How are you? Why haven't you died yet, Nico? I looked at that car. Justify yourself. Why is there no canopy on it? Why are your head exposed? It's so crazy what you're doing or what you did. So, no, you're absolutely right. And I know
[00:01:23] um better than most people also because my father actually was a Formula 1 racer. Yeah. And he was racing champion. And a champion. I didn't want to say but yes, he was also a world champion. But you you were sorry I asked you backstage. You're one of only two fatherson world champions of all time. That's true. Pretty incredible. Which is very special. So I mean your dad's out there racing. You're at home with mom I
[00:01:45] assume. This has got to be terrifying to watch your dad do this. So at in his day they started the season with 20 drivers and they would end the season with only 18 of them left. So it was a 10% chance more or less that you wouldn't make it through the season which is just that's crazy. Wow. I mean what then if you do an 8-year career like what are your odds? Like that's not looking very good. So there to your point. Yeah. Yeah. It
[00:02:11] was a death every 100,000 miles. Now it's a death every 67 million miles. I was very lucky because by the time I came in they had carbon fiber chassis. Um they had roll they have a roll hoop now you know and this this protection this halo around your head which recently saved a couple of lives in the last 5 years cuz Maxappen who's now the the the four-time world champion at the moment. He landed on Lewis Hamilton's
[00:02:38] head in Italy with the full car and it was this halo that saved Lewis Hamilton's life. So, we're very very lucky how the sport has progressed um with the safety. How did you start drive? How old were you? Because um I didn't realize yesterday I go into the suite that we have and they say this kid is 18 years old as a driver. I had no idea that kids that young were driving. How old were you when you started and at
[00:03:02] what point did you start to become competitive? So, it's a bit like with with every sport that you have to start very very young. I started I was six, started go-karting I was six and then racing 10 years old. Now they start racing at year at when they're 8 years old. So Antonelli, who was on pole position yesterday, the 18year-old, uh he started racing he was eight. He was in my go-karting team when he was 12. So
[00:03:25] I know him very very well and he is a generational talent, but it's very early for him cuz he's only 18. And he he took over the car of the greatest of all time. Lewis Hamilton left Ferrari, left Mercedes to go to Ferrari. and Antonelli took this car from Lewis Hamilton. That is insane pressure. Answer this question if you could. You said generation. I'll try I'll try my best. So if we had to design some kind of a model you could
[00:03:54] you define the features that he had when he was six, seven or eight years old that could have predicted how good it was? Like is it the Metaclorian? Like so is it the Well, Anakin Skywalker was really good. I don't know. Nico specialist on Star Wars lore and anyway the metacloran to find the do you think that you could design something where people kids could come and take some kind of test you look at your reflexes or your you know your eye
[00:04:26] twitch speed or the way your brain works and is there a pattern do you think that is genetically predisposes some people to just be exceptional? So we've not come to that point yet that we actually go through such tests. But I think there are a couple of things that would that would kind of satisfy that and one is your speed of processing because in a race car you're going at 220 mph and you have so many inputs flying at you and not
[00:04:52] only visual also sensual. Yeah. Everything and also sound um with the engine and everything and you have to process that so rapidly. How did you train for that? Um I even had a uh a computer program which I developed just for myself actually where I would have all these different inputs. So uh audio, touch, tactile had like a thing around here um and and even then visual on the computer and I would be catching these
[00:05:17] inputs like and trying to break my record and the faster I would go the faster the program would go. Um so I was trying to develop these kind of things that to train my brain to move faster and react. reaction time is the key skill set of a driver. It's one of the ones. Is it also being courageous and like something with your amydala where like you don't have fear? There's that certainly. Yeah. Although I would say
[00:05:40] that I am actually someone who's quite fearful. Um and but when you're in it, you kind of also get used to things. Yeah. And you start to feel quite safe in the car nowadays. Um because I'm not a crazy adrenaline junkie unlike most other drivers actually out there like someone you find that they are adrenaline junkies. Yeah like someone like first tappen is fearless like completely um or even Hamilton you know
[00:06:03] they're proper quite nutcases. Um so the paths are a little different for everyone. Yeah, there's different characters to the personality type. There is a then of course there's hand eye coordination. So to your point, Chamath, for young kids, probably there's a high chance that you put a tennis racket in their hand, they'll also be pretty good, very very quickly. And it's a similar set of skills. Can we shift and talk a little bit about the
[00:06:27] business of Formula 1. I mean, we were talking backstage before the show a little bit and you shared some of the anecdotes about some of the valuations and what's happened over the last decade, decade and a half. maybe you can, you know, just kind of paint a picture for us on how this has evolved as kind of a business and where things sit today, where they're where they're headed and what's driven that. Yeah. So,
[00:06:48] um I'm a venture capitalist myself and that's why I'm very interested in the business side of uh of sport and F1 has gone through such an incredible inflection and there's a couple of factors that have come into play. They brought in budget caps for the teams. So the teams were spending just on sha on their car development like north of 200 million a year and now it's like limited to 130 million a year just for the
[00:07:12] chassis itself not excluding engine drivers and top personnel. $130 million on how many cars is that like for a well there's 10 teams. Yeah. No, but is the 13 cars? Two race cars per year. Per year. But that's just the chassis. You then have the engine which is another 70 million. You then have the top driver who takes 50 million a year or 100. No, 100. No, that was the verse stopen rumor to go. Yeah. Plus marketing plus plus
[00:07:40] you get to maybe 70 80. Yeah. So fielding a team is how much? Fielding a team is around uh you get close to 300 million. Wow. Yeah. But you're saying that the budget cap allowed everything to kind of So the budget cap brought in this cap for developing the chassis to 130. Um then suddenly Netflix also came in and Netflix has just made the sport so much more popular. It's unbelievable. Really changed the land.
[00:08:08] Just in the US you've gone from in a couple last couple of like six years 20 million fans to like 50 million fans. It's more than doubled only in the US alone. What do you think Netflix did? Right. So Netflix the owners of F1 are Liberty. Yeah. Which is a US right. It's a US-based uh company and they did very well. They opened up social media. The new generation of drivers are really social media savvy and are are like the
[00:08:34] fan base is 40% women in America. How many women here today are F1 fans? Loads. There we go. Okay. Not too bad. Um, are all the drivers as good-looking as you or No. No. I don't want to go into that kind of Don't be to yourself in Miami. So, the audience blew up. The audience is has blown up. And you asked me what did they get right? So, what did they get right? The Netflix show, for those of you who have seen it,
[00:09:00] it's like a reality TV show. It's not just a sports documentary like, hey, this guy won here, but they go, they managed to capture these personas behind the scenes and you really get to see the human beings behind the sport and that's very special. and they tried to replicate it in other sports like I think golf and tennis and it didn't work out as well because I think they got a little bit lucky also that here quite a
[00:09:24] few characters allowed them and completely opened up and allowed Netflix to capture the real intense behind-the-scenes moment and it's just fascinating to follow. Yeah. Um, so that's what we're before if you come in as an outsider, I had this experience like what team are you, you know, who you support like I'm not really sure, but once you get to know the personalities, you have a vested interest, you have a history, there's
[00:09:46] something that you can contextualize. Let me just end on the on the business part. Yes. Um, so teams like 10 years ago, F1 teams were like worth $150 million. Yeah. And they would lose 50 million a year. And now the top teams go for five to six billion dollars 10 years later. It's like eye watering. It's incredible. Each other on the when you're driving the race, you try to like Yeah. bump into each other, you know.
[00:10:12] 100%. It's part of the game. Yeah. You have to unfortunately. Explain cuz I'm a neoight. I don't understand it. And I I see like once in a while these NASCAR guys pull over, they get out, they throw their helmets at each other, you know, they get really upset. They seem like but they seem like hillbillies. You guys seem like a bunch of Europeans and like you guys seem like you're fancy, like a little more elegant. What
[00:10:33] What do you guys do? Do you guys like spray with Cleico on each other or something? Like how do you guys mess with each other? Nico didn't watch. So the the word we had one guy pushed it was first stop and pushed the other guy and he got like one week of community service. So uh that was a that was as far as it went. That's as far as the physical but when you're in the car. Yeah. It's fierce. It's fierce. So take
[00:10:55] us through like what was the craziest you've ever been involved in altercationwise? Well, my my rival was my teammate. My rival was Louis Lewis Hamilton at the time. We were both racing for Mercedes. Any Lewis Hamilton fans here today? A little bit. Okay. Send me here. Good. Actually, Nico, can you talk about that in that period? He's so dominant, but the car is so dominant and then you win. What is it like where
[00:11:21] you're teammates with your biggest competitor? Like what is that dynamic like? That psychological dynamic? It's Are you friends? Are you guys friends or So with Lewis Hamilton, we were actually best friends when we were 14 years old. We grew up racing together in the same team. Best friends, but when you get to F1, it's just so intense and so much is at stake. And if it's just the two of you racing for race wins every single
[00:11:46] time, it you can't stand him. You hate him. Yeah. It goes into hating. Yeah. Hate. I can see the content. Do you talk during the week or you don't even really interact? No, you don't interact much. So, unfortunately, it really becomes an like an enemy in a way, you know, and internally in your own team. Yeah. It's a horrible dynamic cuz also even your the rest of the team then need to start to be neutral. They can't take any
[00:12:11] sides. So, even when you win, it's not like everybody's like leaning in with you. It's really a tough situation. So it's like two people in the same project who can't stand each other. Freedberg yet they keep but you keep working together. How much of that um fed your decision to retire literally days after you won the That was a little I think that caught some people off guard. Can you just tell us what happened? I was in
[00:12:39] my prime and I won that championship which for me was my dream come true and it was extremely intense. Thank you. It was extremely Thanks, Mom. I got one I got one clap from my mom sitting in the very big fan. Way to go, mom. Um, yeah, it was extremely intense and for me it just felt like the right moment to I had a young daughter at home. She was one year old. Family um just felt like the right moment. I was
[00:13:08] in one piece to your comment it being dangerous and I just decided rationally you know I never wanted to exit on the way down. That's something I definitely wanted to avoid. I wanted to exit at the top and that was my moment and and I decided to pull the trigger. Has there been a good ROI for the car companies that that have invested in F1 in that all this money that they spend other than the notoriety? Are they inventing
[00:13:34] things that we all use and see and interact with day-to-day in our own daily driving experience or not really? So, you probably will be driving an AMG at some point. I had an AMG at one point. There you go. Um, and there is tech from the F1 team in there now. Okay. From the for the hybrid from Mercedes. Yes. Hybrid and yeah, every every car car company will be benefiting. But the return on investment is also in terms of
[00:13:59] marketing. Mercedes there's a calculated return on investment which is 2 billion for their brand annually and they don't actually invest money anymore because the team is profitable now and highly profitable like these teams make 200 $300 million in profit every year. So they now have $6 billion valuations. Is have we kind of peaked from your point of view? Is the market and the valuation curve still being climbed? There's still
[00:14:25] a lot of uh there's still a lot of upside at the moment because this growth has just happened in the last 5 years. Yeah. And there's still I mean even America there's still loads of growth potential. More races. There's licensing. The sport hasn't really even tapped into that yet. Do you think there's something about sports that are kind of more tuned to the way our brains now operate in a social media world,
[00:14:48] like a fast-paced world? Like, you know, golf became Liv. I mean, Liv really kind of changed the the face of golf. There's now baseball's obviously dead. I mean, MLB has been on the decline for years in the United States. Not saying anything negative about baseball. I'm just saying that the viewership is going down. No, no, no, no. You're you're But there's also these conversations about basketball, the NBA. I'll tell you this
[00:15:10] crazy anecdote. I I was a co-owner of the Warriors. I sold two years ago. A friend of mine, friend of ours is in the market for a sports team and he went to Europe to look at a bunch of soccer teams and then we were all having dinner and his bankers produced this study that showed exactly this problem which is young people their attention span is shrinking. As it shrinks there are certain sports they just cannot watch
[00:15:35] anymore. And it's totally correlated the negative viewership in baseball, the increase in the use of clips. So people are willing to watch baseball clips. They will not watch a baseball game to save their life. People will watch basketball clips. They won't watch basketball. The NBA's moving to clips. Yeah. And so it's this weird construction, but in some ways F1 is very set up for this already naturally, right? Do people don't really watch the
[00:15:58] whole sport as much as they want to watch clips. I'm guessing it's not that hour. How long is this race on sight? It's not that long. It's never been and it's not that long. I mean that's the thing about but you guys also have a lot of a lot of data telemetry like you can feed that kind of anxious mind and there's no breaks it just goes I'm not I'm not sure if you have a point there unfortunately but um but pretty
[00:16:25] diplomat I was just trying to move the conversation no what I can say is that our sport has like the highest engagement rates across all sports even comparing to NBA and everything um but why is that I think there's just a huge hype at the moment and maybe yes maybe okay Maybe a little bit. It is fast-pacing. There's there's incredible action scenes like thrilling action. There's huge crashes. Did you not want
[00:16:48] to get in the business given your knowledge and your experience? You didn't want to be in the because you you now have transitioned into venture capital. How did you make that decision versus working in the business of Formula 1? Oh, great question. Um because um yeah, that's a good qu. So, in Formula 1, what jobs would have been left for me now after driving would be for example running a team. But running a team is 24/7. Like you need full