[00:41:35] sheet on on, you know, the future infrastructure that's going to power the modern economy. And then in like the, you know, data centers like Texas, like what's the limiting factor? Like is it like workforce to actually go build these things? Is it like materials? Is it the cooling towers? Is it the chips? Is it the hyperscalers giving you the like, you know, you know, sort of contracts? What's the, you know, sort of limiting reagent?
[00:41:53] Um, you know, uh, labor is definitely like a major constraint. you know, like I I said, you know, we have about 4,000 people on site um every day. Uh we're going to have multiple sites that are operating with thousands of, you know, uh folks uh basically building this infrastructure. So, you know, uh labor is definitely like one of the one of the big bottlenecks and we're, you know, we think it's really important for America
[00:42:15] to make these massive investments in the workforce uh to really build the infrastructure of the future. And you think that requires some real real reskilling where it's like people from oil and gas or like construction having to go into just totally net new fields or is it something where you guys are actually able to pull on pre-existing talent pools pretty quickly? Um both you know there's there's a lot
[00:42:31] of existing uh you know labor uh you know at that facility in Abene where we're actually pulling labor from all 50 states at this point believe it or not. Um so making like a company town importing people in. Yeah. you know we we have about 50% of the people are are are uh you know from Texas but um you know the uh we we are importing a lot of labor to to make the project happen and um you know do you do you see the company starting to go more full stack beyond just like the operations of like
[00:42:55] the you know sort of data centers or how do you think about like you know you started off with you know focus on like you know sort of energy arbitrage now to data centers where do you see you guys goeselves going over time yeah is a vertically integrated AI infrastructure business so you know data centers is a key component to that and you know I think one of the most important pieces to building right now
[00:43:12] and and one of the hardest things to do at speed. Um but we also have you know this managed AI cloud services layer that um enables innovators to build uh large scale AI applications on the platform. Makes sense. Well yeah Chase, thanks so much for uh you know joining us on stage and um appreciate the talk. Yeah, thanks D. No text Okay everybody, we got a real treat for you. Jensen Wong is here. Sit here. All right. Sit here. Sit here.
[00:43:35] The hot seat. Thanks for coming. Thank you. making that happen. Thank you. The number one podcast in the world. We were saying the number one company in the world. Wow. It's You're a fan of the pod. You listen to the pod. This is This is Norman, our host. Yes. Yes. And there's Steve. Uh what's the story with the jacket? You got one of those. You have like six. I have something like 50 or 60 of them. So you really? Yeah. Wow. What is that? Tom Ford.
[00:44:05] I think so. This one is I think so. Yeah. That's nice. I like it. I tried I tried that on. It was like way too much money. Well, you guys are all so fashionable. Coming from you guys, it actually means something. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oops. Oh, look at you. Look at you. Uh, hey, we we've been talking a lot about opportunity. You've talked. So, mine is like a model. He is. He is. Okay. Good idea. He's definitely in his head. He's like,
[00:44:27] "Is Tom Ford your favorite?" Who's your favorite, right? I My favorite is whatever my wife gets me. Ah, she dresses you, right? As soon as she gets it for me, it's my favorite. Yes. Same with me. Same with me. Smart man. Um, how you got up. Nobody wears a Nobody wears a suit better than Jacob. Good God. Yeah, Jacob. He's a handsome man. Just trying to keep up with you guys. Um, I got I have two questions for you.
[00:44:46] Take them in whichever order you like. Um, we've been talking a lot about job displacement, opportunity, short-term, long-term. Obviously, you get to see everybody applying the technology because, hey, listen, you've got the best product in town to build on. Therefore, everybody explains to you their hopes, their dreams. So, you have a unique way of looking at the playing field. You have complete information
[00:45:09] that we don't have. So, I want to know what you think. Don't worry, we'll fix it. Um, what you think that edit what you think about job creation, transfer, displacement, etc. And then the second one, I've just always been curious. You got all these important people knocking on your door. You got Zuck, you got E, you got uh, uh, Sam Alman. He seems like he's a little bit of a headache. I'll be honest. Um, but he's great. He's great. I'm joking. I'm joking. How
[00:45:40] do you allocate the H100's and whatever else you're selling them and still have them all like you? Because they must ask sometimes, hey, can I get extra? I'll pay you extra. So, just the allocation of a finite amount of resources and then jobs. First of all, I wrote off $5 billion worth of hoppers. If anybody would like to have some extras, you got them. you know, just give me a call. Uh jobs, uh uh we use AI across a whole company.
[00:46:11] Every single software engineer today uses AI. Not one left behind. 100% of our chip designers use AI. We are busier than ever. And the reason for that is because we have so many ideas that we want to go pursue. AI makes it possible for us to go pursue those ideas now that we're not doing the mundane stuff. And so I I think the first idea is the more productive you are as a company um so long as you have more ideas, you could
[00:46:37] pursue those ideas, you'll go after those ideas. And I I think that that AI in my case is creating jobs. It causes us to be able to create things that other people would uh customers would like to buy. Uh it drives more growth. It drives more jobs. You know, all that goes together. The other thing that that to remember is that AI is the greatest technology equalizer of all time. Okay, explain. Everybody's a programmer now.
[00:47:01] Yes. You used to have to know C and then C++ and Python and you know in the future everybody could program a computer, right? Just have to get up and if you don't know how to program a computer, you don't even know how to program an AI, just go up to the AI and say, "How do I program an AI?" And the AI explains to you exactly how to program the AI. Even when you're not sure exactly how to ask a question, you say, "What's the best way to ask the question?" And it'll actually write the question for you. It's incredible. Yeah. And so it's a
[00:47:25] great equalizer. Everybody is going to be augmented by AI. Everybody's an artist now. Everybody's an author now. Everybody's a programmer now. That is all true. And so we know that AI is a great equalizer. We also know that uh it's not likely that although everybody's job will be different as a result of AI, everybody's jobs will be different. Some jobs will be obsolete, but many jobs will be created. The one
[00:47:53] thing that we know for certain is that if you're not using AI, you're going to lose your job to somebody who uses AI. That I think we know for certain. Yeah. There's not a software programmer in the future who's gonna be able to hold their own. I mean, you know, typing by themselves. Yeah. You can't raw dog it. No. No. Not anymore. No raw dog. Not anymore. You can't raw dog it. And tell us. I'll be sure to go home and tell people. Yeah. Exactly. You're not going to raw dog this. Yeah. Get your co-pilot on. Now, what
[00:48:24] about the allocation of all the Okay. So, the way we allocate is this. The way we allocate is this. Uh, place a PO. Okay. That's it. That's you go to the register, you pay, you order first you you know first in in the old days with Hopper it happened so fast it was impossible to keep up with the demand. But now uh we we uh uh we disclose our road map to all of our partners uh a year in advance. Gives everybody a chance to plan with us. They
[00:48:54] decide how much power and how much data center space and how much capex they want to allocate. We plan together. We work on transitions. It's really quite oily these days. What's the lifespan now? You, you know, I was looking into how they're amateurizing, you know, these units four, five years. What happens to this massive buildout in your six, seven, and eight? What will be the use of those computers if you keep building such
[00:49:15] great products that replace them at 2, three, four times? What do we do with all that? Concepts are happening right now. The first thing first thing is every generation we increase the performance by X factors. Yeah. Um if the perf per dollar perf per watt goes up by x factors whatever your data center power is we just increase your revenues by x factors right so perf per watt is equal to revenues per per dollar equals
[00:49:41] the cost and so we increase your perf per dollar by x factors we reduce your cost by x factors does make sense that's the first idea and so every single the reason why we're moving so fast is we're trying to increase everybody's revenues we're trying to decrease everybody's cost so that we have the benefit of driving AI cost down as far as possible so that we can have thinking AI, right? It's not that we're trying to make, you know, AI so that it generates a thousand
[00:50:08] tokens and that's it. In the future, you're going to be generating millions of tokens and it generates an answer as result of that. You got to think a long time and so you got to get that cost down. The second idea is if you look at the residual value of Nvidia gear right now, Hopper for example, one year one year later it's probably about 80% 75 to 80% of the value of the original value and then one year later is another kind of like 65% and then one year later is like 50%. The reason and right now if
[00:50:40] you try to get hoppers in the cloud it's all sold out. The reason for that is because CUDA is so programmable and we're constantly the whole world not just us the whole world is doing open source development improving its effectiveness. And so what's amazing is the performance of Hopper increases over time because we're improving the software stack it Hopper improved in performance by us and others by a factor of four
[00:51:07] right in the time that we shipped it. Now, you can't get that out of a CPU, right? Jensen, can you explain to us um Elon's tweet and the impact to to your industry? He said, "We're going to have 50 million H100 equivalents by in 5 years from now." And everybody started to feverishly do the math because if he has 50 million H100 equivalents, then OpenAI will have that much or more. Meta will have that much or more, Google,
[00:51:36] etc., etc., etc. Can you just explain to us layman what that means what he just said and how it impacts your business? Um, one of the biggest observations about AI is that there's there's the industry of applications that AI has created. It's a revolutionary technology. Every industry would will be revolutionized. New applications will be created. so on so forth that all the things that we know agentic AI reasoning AI robotics AI so
[00:52:07] on so forth we we know all those things now every industry healthcare education transportation you name manufacturing all revolutionized the one part that that that we observed and and made a great contribution to is that in order to sustain those applications you need factories of AI you have to produce produce AI unlike unlike software you write the software and that's it in the case of AI you have to continuously produce it generate the tokens
[00:52:38] right in a lot of the same ways that energy production was a large part of the economy a couple two 300 years ago I think it actually peaked out at 30%. Yep. There's a whole there's going to be a whole industry of just producing tokens and this is going to be the new infrastructure just as we have the energy production infrastructure, we have the internet infrastructure and we got to build out that plumbing and now we got to we have to build out the AI
[00:53:06] infrastructure. My sense is that we're probably, you know, a couple of hundred billion dollars, maybe a few hundred billion dollars into a multi-t trillion dollar infrastructure buildout per year. Yeah. What about manufacturing? And the reason for that is because you want the new infrastructure which increases revenue driving your cost down. Right. That's right. What about manufacturing in the US? So where are we? We um you know we've seen stories of TSMC in Arizona. We asked
[00:53:35] this question earlier about how it's going. Is the US equipped? Uh what is it going to take for us to get there to have onshore fabs? First of all, you guys know you're talking about the United States. uh the the uh I know that there's there lots of concerns and and everybody's you know worried about competition and things like that but we are talking about America here. This is this is unquestionably the most technology rich country in the world
[00:54:03] and this is the most innovative countries in the world and the computer industry I have the I have the honor to serve is the single greatest industry our country has ever produced. I think we could acknowledge that. Yep. The the level of leadership of the computer industry, the technology industry is just unimaginable worldwide. And so this is our national treasure. This is one of our country's assets. We have to make sure that we continue to to to advance it. Um onshoring
[00:54:34] next generation manufacturing is going to be insanely technologydriven. Uh robotics technology, AI technology. You're going to have factories that are going to be orchestrated by AI orchestrating a whole bunch of robots that are AI building products that are effectively AIS, right? So, you're going to have this layers of inception. And the amount of technology necessary to create that is is really insane. We've I I love President Trump's vision, bold
[00:55:01] vision of reindustrializing the United States. That entire band of industry that's missing, we out we outsource too much of it. Frankly, we don't need to insource all of it, but we ought to bring onshore the most advanced, the most economy sustaining, driving, national security enhancing parts of the industry. You know, people always degrade down to tennis shoes. We don't have to go there. We just manufacture chips and AI supercomputers. In Arizona and Texas, we will in the next four
[00:55:33] years probably produce about half a trillion dollars worth of AI supercomputers. that half a trillion dollars worth of AI supercomputers will probably drive a few trillion dollars worth of AI industry, right? And so that's only in the next several years and and uh they're doing great. Arizona is doing great. And so there's um there's a lot of talk about American competitiveness today and the White House ruled out its AI action plan and Nvidia is making very big bets
[00:55:56] on the United States. And so as a CEO of a global company, what do you see are America's unique advantages that other countries don't have? America's unique advantage that no country possibly have is President Trump. And let let me let me explain why. One uh on the first day of his administration, he realized the importance of AI and he realized the importance of energy. For the last I don't know how many years energy production was was vilified if
[00:56:37] you guys remember. Yeah. We can't create new industries without energy. You can't reshore manufacturing without energy. You can't sustain a brand new industry like artificial intelligence without energy. If we decide as a country the only thing we want is IP to be an IP only a serviceson country then we don't need much energy. But if we want to produce things, something as vital as artificial intelligence and we need energy. And so I'm just delighted to see pro to
[00:57:09] accelerate AI innovation to accelerate the growth of energy so that we can sustain this this new industry and um you know go after the the new industrial revolution. Big big deal. Can can you talk about physical AI versus data center AI? We tal we talked a little bit about this today. Is there a threshold where you see physical AI accelerating and ultimately the deployment of chips outpaces the deployment of chips in data centers? Is
[00:57:35] that where the world evolves to or what do you think of the world looks like? Yeah. Excellent. Everything in the world that moves will be autonomous someday and that someday is probably around the corner. So everything that moves, we already know that your lawn mower is going to, you know, who's going to be pushing a lawnmower around? That's craziness. Unless you want to. I mean it's you know and so so I think everything that moves will be autonomous and every machine
[00:57:59] every company that builds machines will have two factories. There's the machine factory for example cars and then there's the AI factory to create the AI for the cars. And so maybe you're uh a machine factory to build human or robots. You need an AI factory to build a brain for the human or robot. Right? And so every company in the future, in fact, the the future of industry is really two factories. Yeah. Uh Tesla already has two factories, right? Elon has a giant AI factory. He's