[00:00:00] No text Guys, this is one of the most amazing entrepreneurs that you're going to meet. Jim Leinsky, this founder and CEO of MP Materials. Thanks. Good to be here. Jason, how are you? So, let me let me set this up. Um, Jim was a hedge fund guy running a pretty successful hedge fund. Uh, and he ended up basically investing in something called Molly Corp, which went out of business. Yep. Yeah. And you did this incredible thing, which
[00:00:27] is you said, "You know what? screw this. You essentially shuttered the fund, took over the company, and fast forward many years later, you are the uh largest and only, I think, supplier and refiner of rare earth materials and maker of magnets inside the United States. We're 100% of the American industry. 100% of the American industry. You just did two really incredible things actually in the last couple weeks. One was you announced an enormous public
[00:00:56] private partnership with the DoD $400 million etc. And then the second is you uh announced a really big deal with Apple. Yes. Okay. So take us take a huge step back. Talk to us why rare earths matter. Tell us about the supply chain for AI. Tell us why you're doing this. Rare earth magnets are really the feed stock to physical AI. Um you know robots, drones, everything we're talking about today, the biggest industry in the world to come. Um, essentially electrified motion requires rare earth
[00:01:26] magnets. Um, so you mentioned the predecessor went bankrupt. Um, there there was a feeling when I when I took over this site with my co-founder and this is this goes back to 2015. Uh, there was where where is the site? This oh it's in Mountain Pass, California. So if you you'll be familiar if you take a 45minute drive from the Las Vegas strip uh just over the border in California uh is the site. You actually can see it from the road. Uh,
[00:01:50] and it's actually the really the best rare earth or body in the world. Um, the thing about rare earths is that when you mine them, you also have to refine them. And it's really expensive and difficult to refine them. It's really a specialty chemical process. And so it's really a think of it as a multi-billion dollar refinery uh that you need to have just to separate them. And then once you separate them, you need to turn them into metal and then a magnet. And so
[00:02:14] there's a multiple layers of this stream to get this supply chain. And of course, you could have all the rare earths in the world, but if you don't make the magnets, you're sending it to China. Or you could have all of the magnetic capability in the world, but if you don't have the rare earths, you're relying on China. And so our vision from day one going back to we we originally bought these assets out of bankruptcy officially. It was a two-year battle, took it out in 2017, and there was a
[00:02:40] perception that we just couldn't compete against China. And what we discovered actually is we could. It's a world-class site, but we had to we had to reorganize the process flow and then we had to make investments uh to move downstream. So over the last eight years, we invested about a billion dollars. Um Jim, as you know, we took the company public in 2020. We built out the refining capability. Uh and then uh about four
[00:03:03] years ago, we announced we were going to build a magnetics factory in Texas. We built that factory. We have GM as a foundational customer. We're now producing autograde magnets uh G to GM spec and we'll be ramping up uh sales to GM at the end of this year in in magnets. And then Chimath, you referenced a couple it's been a busy few months for us. Um we announced a a pretty transformative public private
[00:03:26] partnership with the Department of Defense. DoD is um there's really three pillars to this deal. uh DoD is becoming our largest economic uh investor um as well as they're going to provide uh a price floor for our commodity so that the Chinese sort of Chinese mercantalism we can get into that uh won't take the price of the commodity below the cost of production and then as a result of the DoD investment we're
[00:03:53] going to accelerate the buildout of the magnetic supply chain so we're expanding our facility in Texas for Apple I'll talk about that in a second but we're then going to build a 10x facility to 10x our capacity with DoD as our 100% offtake partner um uh customer and business partner because we'll be we'll be splitting profits 50/50 with D. So to to just translate this, it's not a handout from the government. They didn't gift you $400 million. They invested in
[00:04:19] your company. They have warrants. They have equity. Yeah. So they invested they they both are an an owner. Uh they also are an upside participant in our commodity to the extent that the prices uh uh take off. And then they're also 100% offtake customer. We have a guaranteed level of profits to want to build out this facility, but above a certain threshold, they're a 50/50 economic participant. So there's really you, the taxpayer. Yeah. So this is a and maybe I'll say
[00:04:44] something wild here. This is a true win-win. Obviously great for MP shareholders. um great from a national security and commercial national security standpoint because we're going to have enough magnets to provide you know real certainty in the supply chain for the physical AI revolution and and other industries. Um but it would not surprise me if when we 5 years from now hopefully we'll do this conference and Chimath you'll say to me Jim you know I
[00:05:09] remember that deal that was the first of its kind that you did with DoD and the government made money on you u the taxpayer made money on doing this and I'll say yeah I actually think that that's going to be the outcome um because there's sort of an element of mutually assured economic destruction if the Chinese believe that America has national champions do then there's no point in subsidizing the rest of the
[00:05:32] world. And so I think you can start to see prices uh normalize for some of these things and free up our ability to invest and expand. Why go to the government for this investment as opposed to the private markets? Yeah. Well, because it's that issue that this is sort of one of those, you know, obviously you have to go back to World War II or the railroad boom where you really need government and credit. I mean, this administration uh did
[00:05:57] something, you know, totally unique that Why do you need the government? Merkantalism. Straight up mercantalism. Because the Chinese will sell magnets for below the cost of raw materials. And so every time there's somebody who makes progress, they can put them out of business overnight. And so it's difficult to want to make the investment. And so frankly with the Department of Defense, the scale that they wanted us to build on the time frame that they wanted us to build. We there was no way we were going
[00:06:22] to make that commitment. Um we're fiduciaries, right? We have shareholders. There's no way we're going to make that commitment without certainty that we would not be destroyed by mercantalism and that we would have a customer for the magnets. How big of an industry is physical AI? Meaning, we see the robots, we're told the robots are coming, we we're told there's going to be billions of them. Are they actually being deployed at the
[00:06:46] scale and at the pace that we that we've been told? Yeah. Well, I think that that is a question for there's much smarter guests on this. for the rest I'll give a plug the rest of the day obviously you have the you know the best of the best providing that feed stock um I will say that I think one of the big drivers of our deal was the as we've seen um in Ukraine and the Middle East the future of warfare is physical AI right robots and drones and I think irrespective of
[00:07:13] the scale that robotics is ultimately going to be and and certainly the commercial business will be bigger than than you know the the defense needs but just from a defense standpoint this is this is an a really important supply chain that we must have, right? We there's we can't be funding cutting edge drone and robotics companies and then say, "Okay, but we're going to buy those magnets from China." That makes no sense. Do we have talent capacity or do we have a talent shortage? Secretary Bergam gave
[00:07:39] me a stat which was pretty shocking to me that we only graduate 200 people a year in the United States in mining, which is orders of magnitude different than China. What do we need to do to be competitive to build the industry here? It's a great It's a great question. I think Jason, I think about this question a lot because what's that? Oh my god. Dave, sorry. No, it's all good. I'm a huge fan of the pod and I just embarrassed myself all the time. It's
[00:08:05] it's the only token whites and you know I'm a fan of the pod since day one and I'm totally embarrassed myself. That's only one correction messing with you. Nor am I messing with you? Was this intentional? Um, so huge fan of the pod. Yeah, huge fan of the pod. Who are you again? I'll take a selfie later. And I'm not the AIAR. Go ahead. Um, so we have we have uh 850 employees today at MP. We're we're going to hire when we include what we're building out for Apple uh coupled with what we're
[00:08:37] going to build with DoD. We're going to need a couple thousand more people easily, not to mention the construction jobs. So this is um this is a key existential question for all of us as we build out this is is where are we going to get the talent? I think what we have found um you know at Mountain Pass and we we hire it all electricians um maintenance you know operators is you get people in you train them and then obviously you give people a career and so we we've been training a lot of
[00:09:05] people and it's a little bit more painstaking but there's there's absolutely talent out there people are hungry to do it. Why do you think it's been so hard to establish that that idea like meaning you find it straightforward to find good hardworking people to get into these jobs but the se the thought is always that wow these jobs are not desirable but they really are desirable by many people. Yeah, absolutely. I mean we you know our
[00:09:29] median wage is now pushing $100,000 a year. Um and there's you know relative to some of the opportunity set I mean uh these are great these are great jobs. And what are the salaries? What's that? What's the starting salary? Just curious. So, it really depends on the job function because you know there's there's I mean I I think the easiest way to think about it is you can you can certainly as an operator make close to
[00:09:52] $100,000 a year with us because by the way um everybody's an owner. We have an owner operator culture. Everyone got stock when we went public in 2020. But somebody coming out of high school they can make 40 50 60k or more. Yeah. Or it depends. Are you if we we can't find enough electricians. We can't find enough maintenance workers. A maintenance worker can uh an electrician they can make six figures today. Tell us you said earlier that you
[00:10:17] suspect 5 years from now we're going to look back and this deal with the DoD was a blueprint. Yeah. give us other areas of either physical AI or software AI or other markets where you think these public private partnerships are really necessary to embellish US supremacy. Yeah. Um there are some major categories obviously we've all heard about ship building and advanced pharmaceutical ingredients. I mean I think I think those are important ones and then there
[00:10:46] are a number of sort of niche areas like industrial diamonds that are important for quantum computing and some of these things that you never would have thought of um where there it's a vertical where there might not be a market large enough to to need five players but a a good public private partnership can just solve that problem and then there's some other verticals in critical minerals straightforward for you to find the right person within the Trump
[00:11:11] administration that said of course this is obvious. Let's sit down and hash this out like Yeah. Well, and I I think that's you our our particular deal was led by DoD and so I have to say that the Pentagon leadership is extraordinary. Um and uh you know this was a mandate though directly from the president to solve this problem. And so again they deserve a lot of credit for being you know bold here. And and to be clear cuz I you know this story is not out there. Our process
[00:11:36] this was I've never worked so hard in my life. I mean this was this was like a true aggressive private equity style investment and negotiation. The transaction documents are public. You can look at that. So that's you saying that they're tough. Yeah. They are this was this was as tough as it gets. Tougher than you know think of any you know blue chip private equity or or uh distress lender type negotiation. That's what this was. And the key thing um was they were going to
[00:12:06] hold our feet to the fire to execute on an aggressive timeline. They were going to hold our feet to the fire on the cost. And so we're exposed if we get the costs wrong. You know, we we're making this investment. And and so the key piece of this and which I think is a good model for all of us and is actually will be really effective is the goal I I don't speak for them ask them but I think their goal was we're going to take the things off the table that you can't
[00:12:32] control mercantalism you know certain customer issues um we're going to be held to account for the things that we can control our ability to execute our ability to um execute on a good timeline and our ability to control costs. So when we think about a lot of these historically the government sort of investing in a sector and quote picking a winner usually there's sort of money given to someone and it's sort of public risk private upside right this is not
[00:13:01] that this is private risk public risk public upside private upsideing it's a true shared win-winwin and again like I said whole me to these words I I hope uh I I I hope I'm right on this, but I think the uh to the credit to the Trump administration, I think they will make money on this and have solved the national security. All right, we appreciate you coming, Steve. Yeah. Oh, thanks. Thanks so much. Thanks, brother. Yeah, it's great. All right. Take care, Steve.
[00:13:30] Thanks, Jacob. I appreciate it. Yeah. Okay. Hi, Lisa. Lisa, it's a pleasure. No text Hi. Nice to meet you. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Well, thanks so much for being here with us today. Um, we don't have a lot of time, so we want to get into it. In April, it was announced that you achieved your first silicon output at the TSMC facility in Arizona on that 2nometer line. Um, this administration and the private sector have talked a lot about onshoring semiconductor
[00:13:55] manufacturing. Would love your thoughts of the on the ground experience in Arizona? How's it going? What's not going well? What does America need to do to get this right? Well, absolutely. First of all, it's a pleasure to be here. Um, love the theme. I think we're all super excited about winning the US um, AI race. And I thought if we're going to talk about chips, David, I should actually bring one. Oh, awesome. That's okay. Little bit of showand tell. So, this is our latest generation um AI chip. It's
[00:14:21] our MI355 chip. 185 billion transistors. Takes about 9 months to build. Lots of technology on it. If I just nimeter, this is um 3 nanometer and uh 6 nanometer. So, lots of different uh I'll be putting this on eBay later. I'm going to take it with me when I'm How is that? Thank you. Uh but look to answer your question I think look these AI chips are extremely extremely complex. Um they have uh so much technology on it. Uh we're super excited about the progress
[00:14:51] in US manufacturing. I would say you know 12 months ago people weren't sure that we could do leading edge manufacturing um in the United States. Uh we've been very early in Arizona with TSMC and we did get our first uh chips out. um they're actually 4 nanometer but what we see from it is where there's a will there's a way and I think all of the uh conversation about onuring manufacturing has been you know super good for the semiconductor industry and
[00:15:17] and you know frankly for you know all of us in um semiconductors uh we're in such an interesting place because you know chips are so essential to ensuring that we are able to win the AI race that um you know we want to make sure that there's a lot of geographic diversity and capability there but the reports out where that TSMC couldn't get good qualified trained employees. They had to bring folks over.
[00:15:40] Is that accurate? And like again, like if we're going to scale, like what's the the order of magnitude we're going from here? Is it 10x, 100x? And how are we going to build a workforce to support this industry, which is a completely new industry for America? And Lisa, you have permission to speak freely. Yeah. The best way to say it is no matter when you start something new, it it's going to take work, right? It's it's going to be hard. So sure in the beginning there there were some issues of you know the
[00:16:06] the you know TSMC has like a formula for how they build and they just you know rinse and repeat and they've learned how to do that well in Taiwan. So they had to learn how to do it well in the United States. But I have to tell you, we've been super impressed with the progress. And you know, if we look at the the main thing that we look at is, you know, yields and just how many chips do we get out on a given wafer? And I would say