[00:55:33] years probably produce about half a trillion dollars worth of AI supercomputers. that half a trillion dollars worth of AI supercomputers will probably drive a few trillion dollars worth of AI industry, right? And so that's only in the next several years and and uh they're doing great. Arizona is doing great. And so there's um there's a lot of talk about American competitiveness today and the White House ruled out its AI action plan and Nvidia is making very big bets
[00:55:56] on the United States. And so as a CEO of a global company, what do you see are America's unique advantages that other countries don't have? America's unique advantage that no country possibly have is President Trump. And let let me let me explain why. One uh on the first day of his administration, he realized the importance of AI and he realized the importance of energy. For the last I don't know how many years energy production was was vilified if
[00:56:37] you guys remember. Yeah. We can't create new industries without energy. You can't reshore manufacturing without energy. You can't sustain a brand new industry like artificial intelligence without energy. If we decide as a country the only thing we want is IP to be an IP only a serviceson country then we don't need much energy. But if we want to produce things, something as vital as artificial intelligence and we need energy. And so I'm just delighted to see pro to
[00:57:09] accelerate AI innovation to accelerate the growth of energy so that we can sustain this this new industry and um you know go after the the new industrial revolution. Big big deal. Can can you talk about physical AI versus data center AI? We tal we talked a little bit about this today. Is there a threshold where you see physical AI accelerating and ultimately the deployment of chips outpaces the deployment of chips in data centers? Is
[00:57:35] that where the world evolves to or what do you think of the world looks like? Yeah. Excellent. Everything in the world that moves will be autonomous someday and that someday is probably around the corner. So everything that moves, we already know that your lawn mower is going to, you know, who's going to be pushing a lawnmower around? That's craziness. Unless you want to. I mean it's you know and so so I think everything that moves will be autonomous and every machine
[00:57:59] every company that builds machines will have two factories. There's the machine factory for example cars and then there's the AI factory to create the AI for the cars. And so maybe you're uh a machine factory to build human or robots. You need an AI factory to build a brain for the human or robot. Right? And so every company in the future, in fact, the the future of industry is really two factories. Yeah. Uh Tesla already has two factories, right? Elon has a giant AI factory. He's
[00:58:30] he was very early in recognizing that he needs to have an AI factory to sustain the the cars that he has now. Now he's got AIs in the car, but in the future instead of, you know, I imagine that in the future instead of a whole whole lot of people remote remotely monitoring air traffic control, it'll be a giant AI that's doing the remote control and then only in the case of the the giant AI um can handle it with a
[00:58:54] person come in to to uh intercept. And so so I think you see that that these industries in the future, every industrial company will be an AI company or you're not going to be an industrial company. There was a couple of moments throughout the course of this year where people almost threw in the towel and said, "Oh, we lost to China." Right. There was the Deep Seek moment, then maybe this week, last week, there was this Kimmy model moment. Um, but then it
[00:59:21] kind of fizzled out. Can you just uh explain to us how big of a threat they really are in terms of getting to supremacy, getting there first, whether it's AGI or, you know, super intelligence? Yeah, excellent question. Um, the Chinese AI labs are the world world's leading open open model companies. They they offer the most advanced open models. Open source is fantastic. If not for open source, we know startups won't exist.
[00:59:54] And to the extent that we believe that the future is going to be the future industry is going to be today's startups, they're going to need open open source models. And Deep Seek when it came out, it was a great win for the United States. It was an incredible win. What people didn't and two two reasons. First, imagine if Deep Seek came out and it only ran on Huawei. I just want us to pretend. Use that thought experiment.
[01:00:18] Totally. You got two parallel universes. Exactly. Could you imagine if Q came out and it only worked on non-American tech stack? Could you imagine if KI came out and it only worked on non-American tech and these are the top three open models in the world today? It is downloaded hundreds of millions of times. So the fact of the matter is American tech stack all over the world being the world's standard is vital to the future
[01:00:45] of winning the AI race. You can't do it any other way. We've got to be you know as you know any computing platform wins because of developers. Yeah. And half of the world's developers are in China. So speaking of developers, the second the second I'm sorry, please go ahead. The second thing and it's really a big deal. When DeepC came out, we were thrilled for the second reason which is we now have a super efficient
[01:01:08] reasoning model. And the reason for that is because the old models are one shot. Give it a question. Everything was memorized. You know the pre pre-training is basically memorization and generalization. Two concepts. post training is teaching you how to think. And so now with Deep Seek R1, Kimmy Kimmy K2, um, uh, Q13, you now have reasoning models that can allow that help you think. And so the reason why I was so excited is if each pass of a
[01:01:39] thought is energy efficient, then you can think for a long time, right? Yeah. The last question from for me is that we see uh this capital being applied to human capital in a way that we never thought was possible. It used to be NBA players signing $300 million contracts. Now it's you know uh model researchers and then there was a there was a post this weekend that that said that there was a person that was offered a billion dollars over four years by Meta. Now if that's happening at this layer,
[01:02:10] why hasn't it happened at your layer? because you are the enabler of all of that. And how do you think all of this human capital is going to actually play out? First of all, I've created more billionaires on my management team than any CEO in the world. They're doing just fine. Okay. And so, and and they're doing don't feel sad for anybody at my layer. Yeah, everybody's doing okay. Yeah, my layer is doing just fine. I I tell I but but the important the big
[01:02:40] idea though is that you're highlighting is that the impact of a 150 or so AI researchers can probably create with enough funding behind them create an open AI it's a it's not a 150 people yeah it's not a it's not well deepseek 150 people moonshots 150 people right right and so I mean look at the original uh open AI was about 150 people uh deep mind you know They're all about that size. I think I think um you know
[01:03:10] there's something about the elegance of small teams and that's not a small team. That's a good goodiz team with the right infrastructure. And so that kind of tells you something. 150 people if you're willing to pay say $20 billion $30 billion to buy a startup with 150 AI researchers. Why wouldn't you pay one? Right. Uh speaking of By the way, we told we need to wrap because I'm going to do this one question. Somebody who was inside your organization told me
[01:03:36] with the options that uh you have a secret pool of options and that you will randomly just if somebody does a great job dropped a bunch of RSUs on top of them and that you have this like little bag of options you carry around and that you leave them out. That's nuts. Is that true? Yeah, I'm carrying in my pocket right now. So listen, so this is what happens. I review I review everybody's compensation up to this day. Yeah. at the end of every cycle of when
[01:04:06] they present it and they send they send me everybody's everybody's recommended comp. I go through the whole company. I've got my methods of doing that and I use machine learning. I do all kinds of technology and I sort through all 42,000 employees and 100% of the time I increase the company's spend on opex and the reason for that is because you take care of people. Everything else take care takes care of itself. All right. Well done. Thank you. Thank you Jess. Great to see you.
[01:04:31] Great to see you. We have an event in LA. We'd love to continue the conversation. So, we'll send you a note. The world's number one podcast. There you go. Thank you.