[00:13:55] manufacturing. Would love your thoughts of the on the ground experience in Arizona? How's it going? What's not going well? What does America need to do to get this right? Well, absolutely. First of all, it's a pleasure to be here. Um, love the theme. I think we're all super excited about winning the US um, AI race. And I thought if we're going to talk about chips, David, I should actually bring one. Oh, awesome. That's okay. Little bit of showand tell. So, this is our latest generation um AI chip. It's
[00:14:21] our MI355 chip. 185 billion transistors. Takes about 9 months to build. Lots of technology on it. If I just nimeter, this is um 3 nanometer and uh 6 nanometer. So, lots of different uh I'll be putting this on eBay later. I'm going to take it with me when I'm How is that? Thank you. Uh but look to answer your question I think look these AI chips are extremely extremely complex. Um they have uh so much technology on it. Uh we're super excited about the progress
[00:14:51] in US manufacturing. I would say you know 12 months ago people weren't sure that we could do leading edge manufacturing um in the United States. Uh we've been very early in Arizona with TSMC and we did get our first uh chips out. um they're actually 4 nanometer but what we see from it is where there's a will there's a way and I think all of the uh conversation about onuring manufacturing has been you know super good for the semiconductor industry and
[00:15:17] and you know frankly for you know all of us in um semiconductors uh we're in such an interesting place because you know chips are so essential to ensuring that we are able to win the AI race that um you know we want to make sure that there's a lot of geographic diversity and capability there but the reports out where that TSMC couldn't get good qualified trained employees. They had to bring folks over.
[00:15:40] Is that accurate? And like again, like if we're going to scale, like what's the the order of magnitude we're going from here? Is it 10x, 100x? And how are we going to build a workforce to support this industry, which is a completely new industry for America? And Lisa, you have permission to speak freely. Yeah. The best way to say it is no matter when you start something new, it it's going to take work, right? It's it's going to be hard. So sure in the beginning there there were some issues of you know the
[00:16:06] the you know TSMC has like a formula for how they build and they just you know rinse and repeat and they've learned how to do that well in Taiwan. So they had to learn how to do it well in the United States. But I have to tell you, we've been super impressed with the progress. And you know, if we look at the the main thing that we look at is, you know, yields and just how many chips do we get out on a given wafer? And I would say
[00:16:28] it's equivalent between what we get in Taiwan and what about cost in Arizona because it's unrealistic to think the United States could compete on cost. Am I correct? We're going to pay a little bit more. Give us the ballpark. 50% more, 20%. Not not 50% more. I mean look it it it it's going to be you know more than 5% but you know let's call it less than 20%. So low low low double let's say low double digits and how does that impact the business if
[00:16:54] at all uh in terms of competition globally? Well, I think the important thing is I mean just think about like everybody wants a GPU, right? Like if you look across the industry, you really say, you know, the people who are going to win in AI want to have as much compute in their foundation as possible and they want assurance of supply. We want to be able to supply this no matter what happens. And so if you put that in
[00:17:17] context, you know, the fact that you're not going for the the lowest cost, you know, every minute of the day, um, is okay. It's okay. Like obviously we're not going to build um not everything needs to be in the most advanced technologies and so we have a very geographically diverse supply chain. You know I think Taiwan continues to be important um in that view but the the focus um from this administration on getting uh onfirm manufacturing in a big
[00:17:44] way not in a small way I think is is very good for the country. How much time do we have? If there was a disruption, for whatever reason, we can come up with hypotheticals in Taiwan and we were unable to get chips from those factories, what would that look like globally? Yeah, you have to look across um the supply chain, but you know, from a structure standpoint, we all want to keep reserves for, you know, those those times. Uh but it's months, it's not
[00:18:10] years. Lisa, there was uh two really interesting posts over the last couple of days. One was from Elon where he said in 5 years he projected 50 million H100 equivalents just for XAI and the second was Sam Alman they signed a deal for a four I think gawatt data center 30 billion a year with Oracle that just pretends an enormous amount of chips that are necessary and power and if you forecast that how do we
[00:18:39] actually meet all of that what needs to happen that's not happening today inside of the United States to actually do that Yeah, it's it's a great great point. I mean, that's that's what we're seeing. We're seeing this uh incredibly large demand uh for AI and they're coming from, you know, Sam and Elon are certainly uh the you know, the the leaders, a couple of the leaders. Uh there's there's a lot of demand elsewhere, too. I mean, if you think about it, nations want their own AI. So,
[00:19:04] there's uh very high demand. We're we're imagining that just the accelerator market, so the chips for these um you know, AI large computing systems will be like, you know, over $500 billion in a couple of years. So very high growth. And when you say, you know, what do we need to do? Um it's the entire ecosystem needs to scale up. So we need to scale up um certainly what we're doing in in chip design is trying to get chips out as fast as possible. Uh but we're also
[00:19:31] scaling up the entire manufacturing ecosystem. And you know, as I said, I don't I think the US is going to be a huge piece of it. So, it's not just about the silicon. There's all of the various other pieces of the ecosystem that have to come to the US. And and I think look, I think today's um AI action plan is actually a really, you know, excellent blueprint. And how do you see the market evolving in these next five or six years? Is it
[00:19:56] there's a standard set of chips for training, a standard set for inference or do you just see an explosion like a Cambrian explosion of different AS6, different designs, different use cases? Yeah, I I I like that question because I I am a believer in there will be diversity of chips. Uh and the reason is there's so many use cases, right? If you think about use cases from, you know, whether you're talking about science or manufacturing or design or backend or, you know, frankly personal AI, I think
[00:20:21] we're going to see AI in everything that we do. you know certainly in your phones in your PCs and so you have all these pieces you're going to have different types of chips um that do that uh you know certainly the for the largest systems uh we tend to believe that uh you know you need the most compute you can get and so you know GPUs are there but lots of AS6 are um in the in the process and you know we'll see a variety of different chips. You opened up a really interesting line of questioning
[00:20:48] there. When mainframes uh were so expensive and then eventually wound up having PCs that were more expensive on their desktop, you alluded to AI being run locally. Yes. When would we have a local computer, a laptop, a desktop computer that would have the power we're seeing to run some of these LLM models in your mind? And do you see that as a specific market to go after? I look I definitely see the um the idea that AI will be at every part
[00:21:16] of our ecosystem um is a uh is a real thing. I think that's one of the advantages. If you think about the power of AI um you want it everywhere and you want it across all different applications. And I think when you think about PCs today, we're putting significant amount of AI um in them to run local models. And why would you want that? It's like well maybe I don't want all my personal data, you know, all over the place. On on that point, can you make a prediction on when the the market
[00:21:42] for physical AI chips is greater than the market for chips and data centers? Uh that's a great question. I'm a big believer in physical AI. I still think it's let's call it five years. You think five years? Is that that fast? It's at least five years. So you're saying five plus. Five plus. Yes. Okay. But that but that is ultimately the biggest end market. Do you think is it phys you think physical AI becomes the
[00:22:05] biggest end market? I think it becomes a significant end market. Um I think you look at chips in data centers and you look at chips at the edge, they're also, you know, significant markets. When you look at the most cutting edge techniques today, EV lithography, all of this whole stuff to make chips. One of the things that's observable is we're only as good as what humans have been able to invent. And I often ask the recursive question, what happens when the AI is able to invent its own method of manufacturing,
[00:22:37] different materials, different material sciences, different approaches that we may not necessarily understand? Is any of that R&D happening whether at AMD or in other places? Like how are we trying to get beyond the physical limits of electrons shunting across a junction? I I think this idea that the um AI can be extremely smart and extremely capable like we think about how AI can design the future chips and it will design
[00:23:05] pieces of it but there's still a a creativity of bringing it all together that I think humans are still absolutely at the center of that. So I don't necessarily see the AI designing our next generation GPU, right? Right. Uh but I do see it helping us design the next generation GPU much faster and more reliably. So you talked about the need to like reshore more parts of like the you know ecosystem. Obviously you guys are there's a world class chip design the
[00:23:30] fabs are getting reshored but how do you think about things like lithography like does that need to be you know sort of reshored or like does ASML need to start building you know sort of machines in the United States or is it okay to have that type of you know supply chain risk on an ally? Look, I think we're going to we we have to accept the fact that it's a global supply chain. Like even if you were to reshore, you know, X number of
[00:23:51] components, you would still have Y components that are across the world. I think it's important for us to have our allies together. So that's a a key piece of the conversation and ensuring that you know we have access to the latest generation technologies and uh you know that that is you know something that we protect given our intellectual property and going going to first principles and asking you the open-ended question what
[00:24:15] should be done about American education. I'm going to ask this a lot today. Assume there's no college, high school, nothing. You arrive in America, the situation is what it is today. What do you do? How do you build an education system to prepare the next generation for the evolving workforce? Yeah, I'm probably a little bit biased as maybe some of your uh guests are today. Uh I'm a big believer in, you
[00:24:38] know, science and technology background as being, you know, sort of the STEM background is, you know, so helpful when we think about the future workforce. And the earlier we can get into the um you know sort of the process I think the better. So some of the work that's being done to kind of revitalize the uh curriculum I think is is pretty important in the um sort of the next generation workforce. And one of the
[00:25:02] things when I think about you know how we win in AI like there there's so many aspects of it but ensuring that you know America is the best place for AI talent is is also you know a key piece of that. So kind of inspiring people when they're young to uh really you know study you know science. Lisa when you um go to bed at night and you think about the best case scenario for this technology and this trajectory we're on which is accelerating and
[00:25:27] you're enabling. What could the world look like in 10 years? We let's say it's pretty obvious we're hitting artificial general intelligence at this moment. I think we'd all agree we're starting to see that. But super intelligence can't be far behind that. I assume you agree with that. um assume we hit that super intelligence what will the world look like in 10 years in the most optimistic scenario if we do this right well I think the exciting part about it and you know I can say this ex very
[00:25:53] sincerely I mean this is the most um transformational technology sort of in our lifetimes I mean that's the way we should think about orders of magnitude orders of magnitude and the reason is it's not just going after one aspect right you can actually take AI and make science better you can take AI and make medicine better. You could take AI and make manufacturing better. You can take AI and make every aspect of your business better. And so, you know, in my
[00:26:21] mind, 10 years from now, we'd like to believe that we are um, you know, really leveraging it to solve some of the world's most important problems. I I like to say like, you know, AMDers get up in the morning and they say, you know, how can I use technology to solve some of the most important challenges um in the world? And, you know, AI is really our mechanism for doing that. I have a business strategy question. If we went back 20 years and we wrote the tale of three companies, Nvidia, AMD, Intel,
[00:26:48] and then you fast forwarded 20 years, two have just absolutely thrived and one has not. And if you had made the bet back then, it would have been very inconclusive that you would have picked Nvidia and AMD. And if anything, there was a an amount of inherent belief that Intel had just figured it all out. Can you just tell us sort of like the lessons learned of why you've thrived and maybe what you take away from their journey that you make sure AMD doesn't play out
[00:27:22] well you know as a CEO we have to be paranoid every single day right so we don't rely on the past but I think there are lessons of the past and I I think the probably the most important lesson that I can uh say for technology is you have to shoot ahead of the duck like you have to be thinking what is the most like your question Jason great question we think about that all the time how do we shoot ahead of the duck and you know you have things that change you know
[00:27:47] technology is a beautiful place because you see big inflection points like 5 years ago AI was around but we wouldn't be able to gather this audience to talk about AI because people be like who cares but the fact is you had to invest many many years ago to be where we are today and I think you know I I like to say that you know you will you will be able to judge whether we've done a good job or not by how we perform 5 years from now. Like the decisions we're
[00:28:12] making will take, you know, five plus years to play out. Uh but that's the key thing in tech like nothing is fast but hopefully it's quite lasting in what it do you think is happening in countries not in the United States like what do you think is happening in chip design and all of these mech capabilities in China and other places right now? We should believe that it's super super competitive. I mean, at the end of the day, I think the world has recognized that um that semiconductors and chips
[00:28:38] are essential. They're essential to national economies. They're essential to national security. And so, assume that everyone's investing. Um I'd like to believe that we have a great head start, you know, because of the innovation pipeline, because of, you know, the great uh companies that we have here, but we should not be, you know, confused that everybody's investing and we need to keep our up our investments as well. And I I think that's why, you know, this
[00:29:04] whole idea of any one company can provide every solution that's necessary just isn't the case, right? I I I love the idea of open ecosystems of uh you know uh companies collaborating of collaboration across the ecosystem. So hardware, software systems um you know collaboration across public private partnerships because that's what it's going to take like for us to win. We have to be, you know, front-facing and
[00:29:28] realizing that bringing, you know, the the countries that win bring all of the smartest people and the best, you know, capabilities together and let them go as fast as they possibly can. Great. So, thank you for being with us. Wonderful afternoon. Been great. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Pleasure to meet you. Thank you. No text I'm Chase Locker, the uh co-founder and CEO of Crusoe, and I'm here to talk to you about the AI industrial revolution.
[00:29:55] Um, I'm going to start with a quote and it's from Warren Buffett in his 2020 shareholder letter shareholder letter to investors and he said, "In its brief 232 years of existence, there has been no incubator for unleashing human potential like America. Despite some severe interruptions, our country's economic progress has been breathtaking. Our unwavering conclusion, never bet against America." Buffett's words were true then and as we enter this global race for technological