[00:27:47] technology is a beautiful place because you see big inflection points like 5 years ago AI was around but we wouldn't be able to gather this audience to talk about AI because people be like who cares but the fact is you had to invest many many years ago to be where we are today and I think you know I I like to say that you know you will you will be able to judge whether we've done a good job or not by how we perform 5 years from now. Like the decisions we're
[00:28:12] making will take, you know, five plus years to play out. Uh but that's the key thing in tech like nothing is fast but hopefully it's quite lasting in what it do you think is happening in countries not in the United States like what do you think is happening in chip design and all of these mech capabilities in China and other places right now? We should believe that it's super super competitive. I mean, at the end of the day, I think the world has recognized that um that semiconductors and chips
[00:28:38] are essential. They're essential to national economies. They're essential to national security. And so, assume that everyone's investing. Um I'd like to believe that we have a great head start, you know, because of the innovation pipeline, because of, you know, the great uh companies that we have here, but we should not be, you know, confused that everybody's investing and we need to keep our up our investments as well. And I I think that's why, you know, this
[00:29:04] whole idea of any one company can provide every solution that's necessary just isn't the case, right? I I I love the idea of open ecosystems of uh you know uh companies collaborating of collaboration across the ecosystem. So hardware, software systems um you know collaboration across public private partnerships because that's what it's going to take like for us to win. We have to be, you know, front-facing and
[00:29:28] realizing that bringing, you know, the the countries that win bring all of the smartest people and the best, you know, capabilities together and let them go as fast as they possibly can. Great. So, thank you for being with us. Wonderful afternoon. Been great. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Pleasure to meet you. Thank you. No text I'm Chase Locker, the uh co-founder and CEO of Crusoe, and I'm here to talk to you about the AI industrial revolution.
[00:29:55] Um, I'm going to start with a quote and it's from Warren Buffett in his 2020 shareholder letter shareholder letter to investors and he said, "In its brief 232 years of existence, there has been no incubator for unleashing human potential like America. Despite some severe interruptions, our country's economic progress has been breathtaking. Our unwavering conclusion, never bet against America." Buffett's words were true then and as we enter this global race for technological
[00:30:29] dominance of a artificial intelligence uh they ring even truer today. American dynamism has always prevailed and it will continue to do so. So in in in sort of the uh history of of of really what made America great is uh you know we live in a nation that's the freest nation in the world and we have uh we are just as rich in land and resources as we are in human ambition uh to drive progress. And one of the things that's fundamentally enabled that progress to happen and that ambition to be unleashed
[00:31:04] is the leading investments that we've made in infrastructure over the course of his lifetime. Uh Warren Buffett got to witness uh investments in in power in transportation and in uh in power in transportation and in natural resources to uh to enable people to go pursue their dreams and live a better life. Let's see. There we go. Now, in 2025, we stand at a, you know, the start of a new era of infrastructure, the infrastructure of intelligence, and it's driving the
[00:31:39] biggest capital investment in human history. Uh, this investment is being led by the hyperscalers uh who are investing hundreds of billions of dollars per year per year um to make this happen. These are the companies with the biggest balance sheets in the history of business that are quite literally going allin to to make this happen. And they're not the only ones. You know, there's also startups like Crusoe and uh there's there's even
[00:32:04] nation states um that are following suit. So So what's going on there? What's the what's the prize that that they're going after? Um the you know the opportunity here is that uh uh for the first time in human history, we've actually been able to manufacture intelligence. um intelligence is the uh scarcest economic resource um in the history of the economy and and for the first time we're actually able to make it. Um and the opportunity here is to
[00:32:31] actually unlock access to what has uh historically been that scarce economic resource. So um this is why the data centers of the future are not being referred to as data centers. They're actually being referred to as AI factories. It's a factory that takes as inputs data and algorithms and chips and energy and it outputs intelligence. This is the alchemy of intelligence. So this newly manufactured intelligence will spawn a new chapter of unprecedented productivity and
[00:33:06] development and that will serve to improve human quality of life. So the IDC estimates that AI will generate $20 trillion in economic impact by 2030. So even if you can earn a small slice of that, that hundreds of billions of dollars of investment will earn an amazing return. For each dollar invested into uh business related AI is expected to generate $4.60. Uh as my friend Jensen would say, the more you buy, the more you save. Um or in this case, the more you buy, the more
[00:33:38] you make. uh and we can grow the pie together and usher in a new era of AIdriven abundance. So when we look at the history of American energy production and consumption, uh as as as the US industrialized, we we really ramped up energy generation and uh and also consumption. But if you look at this chart, you can see that, you know, it's it's kind of flatlined over the last 20 years uh where we're, you know,
[00:34:04] generating and consuming about 4,000 terowatt hours per year. AI is fundamentally transforming this demand picture and uh and and energy is quickly becoming the bottleneck to growth. Uh data centers are forecasted to account for 20% of the growth in power demand between now and 2030. And uh data center total power consumption is going to go from 2.5% of US power consumption to 10%. So what this means is that the
[00:34:30] technology industry that's sort of willing this infrastructure into existence fundamentally needs to bring its own power to support that growth. Um which means massive investments not just in data centers but also in the energy infrastructure to support them. And this will require people lots of people to build operate maintain uh and run these these large scale energy investments. Um so if we look at data centers you
[00:34:55] know by the numbers I think it's important you know as people are sort of throwing around gigawatt scale data centers uh of looking at the amount of data center infrastructure that exists today. Uh Northern Virginia is sort of the center of the world for data centers but it's only you know at the end of 2014 it was only 4.5 gawatt. Today we have companies that are looking at building single 5 gawatt facilities. And
[00:35:14] if you look at this growth we're building more than a uh northern Virginia every single year in the forecasted future. So we need new in So if there's one thing that you're going to take away from this presentation, it's that we need new infrastructure. We need lots and we need lots of it and we need lots of people to build, operate and maintain it. This is what Cruso is focused on solving. Cruso is in the business of activating energy for intelligence of
[00:35:40] building operating uh AI factories at scale from from the steel to the silicon, from the electron to the token. And if you look at our pipeline, we have about 40 gawatts of capacity that spans um all sorts of energy resources from new energy technologies like uh you know like like uh small modular reactors to uh renewables and and natural gas to to power this uh innovative future. Uh so revisiting my formula here, I think we left off one critical component which is the people. Uh AI will be AI
[00:36:13] infrastructure will be the largest job creation catalyst that we've ever seen. So I think it's important to sort of look at you know what this looks like in practice. For the last year um Cruso has been building um uh a large large scale AI factory in Abalene, Texas. And uh you know speed is paramount. Again this event is winning the AI race. Uh in order to win a race you really need speed. Uh, and Cruso's really been focused on on on using modular
[00:36:40] components on on rapidly scaling investment in in construction and infrastructure to support this. And and and and we've actually built a lot of different modular components in in factories and brought them to site. And they're kind of like uh they're kind of like Lego blocks that sort of fit together to to build one of these AI factories at at rapid scale and speed. Um so if you look at if you look at what this looks like today um you know this is uh this is this is this this site
[00:37:08] will consume over 1.2 gawatts of power and 400,000 NVIDIA GPUs all in a single coherent cluster. So uh this will essentially be a gigawatt scale computer to drive human progress forward. Um you know it's really amazing what you can kind of accomplish in a year. You see just one year ago, this is what the site looked like and this is what it looks like today. Um, so what does this mean from a jobs perspective? We have 4,000 people
[00:37:34] working on site every day to, you know, make this facility happen. Um, and you know, it's it's it's a bunch of different trades, electricians and plumbers, um, and construction workers. Um, and it's required a lot of capital, too. We raised $15 billion to basically put this facility and and and and bring it into existence. Um, and it's also required manufacturing and that's and a lot of the critical components have happened off-site in these controlled manufacturing environments.
[00:38:02] Um, but this isn't the only one. This isn't a one-of-a-kind. We also are building AI infrastructure and AI factories across America. This site in West Texas is going to be a gigawatt facility uh behind the meter with wind with incremental gas and grid interconnection. Uh we did a partnership with Redwood Materials where we built the largest uh uh we built the the largest micro grid with uh in the United
[00:38:24] States with 60 60 megawatt hours of of batteries, end of life EV batteries and uh 20 megawatts of solar to power an AI factory. We have a partnership with GE Verova and engine number one uh for 4.5 gawatt of new uh gas generation capacity to power future AI data centers. And finally, uh, we want to announce a new partnership that we're doing with Tall Grass Energy in Wyoming that will initially power 1.3 gawatts of total
[00:38:48] compute load uh, alongside two 2 gawatts of power generation and ultimately we feel like this can scale to 10 gawatts of power. Uh, so we're really thrilled to partner with Tall Grass. So uh as a vertically integrated AI infrastructure company built here in America, we believe that AI factories will be the ultimate economic engine creating utility for society uh and and and and new jobs for the economy. Um
[00:39:12] this will usher in a massive new era of AIdriven prosperity for the United States. And I want to leave you with, you know, my final quote from Warren Buffett that, you know, in this AI race, uh never bet against America. Thank you. So, is this stuff real? You guys, you started off as like a, you know, sort of Bitcoin miner and now somehow all the hyperscalers are asking you to, you know, build non-stop data centers. Why you guys?
[00:39:39] Um, you know, I think again it comes back to this being a race and one of the things that Cruso's been able to do better than anyone is execute at speed and scale. And I know there's been like some of the biggest constraints around, you know, sort of, you know, water, energy, um, you know, the land for this type of stuff. like where have you seen what parts of the country you know are you guys able to actually do this or have you seen any of the local regulators start to step up to you know make this stuff easier for you? Um, you know,
[00:40:03] we've been building quite a bit in Texas. You know, Abene, Texas is this, you know, initial facility that's gotten a lot of coverage. Uh, you know, we we just sort of announced another facility in Texas. Uh, Wyoming's been a, you know, big area of investment for us. But, um, you know, there's a number of other states that were sort of evaluating, investing uh, to build large scale AI. Is it only going to be the like, you know, sort of more rural, you know, sort of red states or do you think that like, you know, Oregon, Washington, etc. will
[00:40:26] start to, you know, sort of get together and realize they've got cheap hydropower and, you know, cheap water and we'll try and get you there. Uh, no. You know, believe it or not, we're actually looking at something in California. Wow. California. Gavin Newsome is gonna bring you in. I would imagine that's gonna take like 50 years with their regulations. Maybe. We'll see. We'll see. And you the Do you think that the, you
[00:40:44] know, sort of hyperscaler demand? Obviously, we were just, you know, on with Lisa Sue talking about the demand for chips over the next couple years. That's obviously correlated to the, you know, demand with data centers. Do you think that's actually going to play out the way that all the public markets are, you know, sort of projecting or are we like in 1999 peak, you know, everybody thinks that fiber is going to be deployed all over the world? Turns out
[00:41:01] all those projections were totally off. Um I I think the important trend to watch is sort of the capital investment that's happening and and the term over which that's happening. So I thought like Meta backed off on it a little bit like didn't they like for a little bit talked about they were going to deploy like crazy and then pulled back although he's obviously spending a billion dollars on chief AI scientist
[00:41:18] now. Yeah. I think you know the the investments they're making in people are actually rounding errors compared to the investments they're making in infrastructure. And I think that's something to sort of appreciate in this moment in time. Like people are betting their entire balance sheets. These are the biggest, you know, and best balance sheets in the history of business and they're betting their entire balance
[00:41:35] sheet on on, you know, the future infrastructure that's going to power the modern economy. And then in like the, you know, data centers like Texas, like what's the limiting factor? Like is it like workforce to actually go build these things? Is it like materials? Is it the cooling towers? Is it the chips? Is it the hyperscalers giving you the like, you know, you know, sort of contracts? What's the, you know, sort of limiting reagent?
[00:41:53] Um, you know, uh, labor is definitely like a major constraint. you know, like I I said, you know, we have about 4,000 people on site um every day. Uh we're going to have multiple sites that are operating with thousands of, you know, uh folks uh basically building this infrastructure. So, you know, uh labor is definitely like one of the one of the big bottlenecks and we're, you know, we think it's really important for America
[00:42:15] to make these massive investments in the workforce uh to really build the infrastructure of the future. And you think that requires some real real reskilling where it's like people from oil and gas or like construction having to go into just totally net new fields or is it something where you guys are actually able to pull on pre-existing talent pools pretty quickly? Um both you know there's there's a lot
[00:42:31] of existing uh you know labor uh you know at that facility in Abene where we're actually pulling labor from all 50 states at this point believe it or not. Um so making like a company town importing people in. Yeah. you know we we have about 50% of the people are are are uh you know from Texas but um you know the uh we we are importing a lot of labor to to make the project happen and um you know do you do you see the company starting to go more full stack beyond just like the operations of like
[00:42:55] the you know sort of data centers or how do you think about like you know you started off with you know focus on like you know sort of energy arbitrage now to data centers where do you see you guys goeselves going over time yeah is a vertically integrated AI infrastructure business so you know data centers is a key component to that and you know I think one of the most important pieces to building right now
[00:43:12] and and one of the hardest things to do at speed. Um but we also have you know this managed AI cloud services layer that um enables innovators to build uh large scale AI applications on the platform. Makes sense. Well yeah Chase, thanks so much for uh you know joining us on stage and um appreciate the talk. Yeah, thanks D. No text Okay everybody, we got a real treat for you. Jensen Wong is here. Sit here. All right. Sit here. Sit here.