[00:15:08] provision in the Working Families Tax Cut Act. $1,700 everybody in this room can give $1,700 every year. Billions of dollars that are going to go into school choice for for making sure everybody has equal equality of opportunity. If you don't do that at maximum scale, and this moment leaves the majority of Americans behind, we're not going to be able to get anything done. >> Spend more money on programs. >> Yeah, spend more money, but not not
[00:15:35] spend more money spend more money in giving people opportunity. So, the reason those two accounts are great, it takes it out of the government, circumvents the government, it's based on incentives and a choice by people that have wealth. Um it's uh it's sort of Andrew Carnegie uh brought to present day, take that wealth, put it in the hands of those who will benefit from it, but it's your choice. It's not dictated dictated by
[00:15:59] the government. I think that's going to have to be part of the answer. >> Does anyone in Congress subscribe to the notion that I think is rooted in uh you know, uh empiricism that the more we spend, the harder it is for people to have economic mobility? You know, and I think that there's a a simplified notion that government has to play a role in driving people's progress. And the truth is, the more government intervenes in markets, the
[00:16:25] more inefficient and the more expensive those markets get, and therefore the more inaccessible wealth and value creation is for any individual. And the freer the market, the less the government intervenes, the less the government is spending, the less the government is buying, the better things get for people generally speaking. Does is And it seems to me every time I visit DC, I leave profoundly unhappy because I meet with people in Congress,
[00:16:49] and this is a notion that seems to be diametrically opposed to their viewpoints that everything is about doing more for people. Government needs to do more on both sides of the aisle. Whereas if the government did less, things would get more affordable, things would get more accessible, and people would have greater economic mobility. >> Well, I mean, you know, talk about the the the the government. Now, we had not
[00:17:15] just one, we had two shutdowns. Both were historic in terms of their length. Now, we couldn't just agree on very basic things. And now we've shut the government down collectively for over 120 days or whatever now. So, then that's one of the thing as a Democrat I refuse to engage in that thing. If that's a core responsibility as a senator, keep our government open and for the love of God, find a way to agree enough to keep things open and put
[00:17:42] things in risk and make our country less less safe. You know, I'm proud to be a capitalist. And our capitalism is the the one system that has proven to raise life's standard of humans across the globe. You know, that. And now people in my party and now now we're having bad ideas refuse to die. And now we're talking about socialism and and communist right now. We have We have candidates now that I'm I am a communist
[00:18:12] these things. And that's like, &quot;Hm, that seems interesting.&quot; You know, what's your point now? Talk to anyone that's had to live under those kinds of regime. Now, they're all absolute capitalists right now. And that's that's absolutely the fact. That the market will has fixed a lot of these kinds of problems. You know, and I'm not terrified by AI. Am I concerned about it? 100% right right now. And with now my foes and now their
[00:18:36] concerns about mass hacking and a weaponizing it that way. You know, that's coming. And now I think that should belong to America. You know, that you know, we America should build that chassis. And now that's why if we turn my party into where AI is the scourge or the cancer, now I refuse to reject that because it's going to transform the world. Now, it can come from us or it can come from China. Whose side are you're going to be
[00:19:04] in? And a lot of the people that oppose that, now a lot of that opposition is funded by a lot of these groups that are aligned with CCP. So, that's part of the danger right now tell. So, that's the dangerous time right now and like Democrats now my party oh the problems are billionaires. Oh, but we love the billionaires that fund you know our kinds of views and our views and that too. I don't target people you know people
[00:19:33] you know call out Bezos or whatever it's like you don't don't do that don't call out private citizens identify them as the problem. You know, they are create jobs. If you've never created a job don't criticize people that that have really changed our our economy for the better I I honestly. >> Why is Graham Platon are doing so well in the polls? This is a candidate that has a literal Nazi tattoo on his chest.
[00:19:59] >> Yeah yeah I know. >> And what is what does history tells us comes next if he wins? If a candidate like that can win, what does that tell us? >> Yeah well when I when I was a kid if someone had a Nazi tattoo you probably could call them a Nazi sympathizer, you know, and someone now and now it just yesterday we discovered that he was sexting with up to a dozen women and now Democrats now some of them are saying well what's the big problem,
[00:20:24] you know, that's you know, they're constantly just ignoring a lot of these things um and now this is a guy that just a couple of years a couple of years ago described an American soldier in a firefight with the Taliban uh dumb mother that doesn't deserve to live. That's his words. Who does that? Who lurks on there and you know, he's really a tough guy behind a keyboard and I can't you know, explain other than that it's a backlash to to how partisan
[00:20:55] things are. Someone like that should have been in this race right now so here we are, you know, a guy that was text sexting to up to a dozen women. You know, he's getting a swallow on. And uh when I were [laughter] kind of just what's the big deal? Uh why not confront that and just then call that out? And that's that's the danger if now these kinds of views could you imagine could you imagine if either one of us described an American
[00:21:30] soldier as a dumb that deserves to lie or he described the our army as as absolute trash absolute trash. He described them American army as absolute trash. And and that's a viable candidate now and that's that's a bizarre place to live right now as a Democrat. >> If he If he wins, what happens to this What what does that tell us about where we're headed? >> Well, look at what I mean what's happening there is I mean there's
[00:21:56] there's problems on both parties, but certainly what you've seen on the left is two things. I think it's indisputable. One is a a migration to these terrible ideas of socialism and Marxism and so forth. But in addition to that this really rise of anti-Semitism and hatred and that and that the tell here of how pervasive it is is the people who are now campaigning in Maine Chuck Schumer. Uh Elizabeth These are mainstream
[00:22:24] Democrats that have now lurched so far to the left. And I think um I think this is going to be if if those candidates win and that becomes validation of the viability of that stream of thinking in the Democratic Party, I think it's in horribly unhealthy for America. Ironically, the best thing we want if we're Republicans is a strong Democratic Party that keeps us honest and keeps us in check with good ideas. And
[00:22:53] and that's not happening. And as I said we have problems on both sides, but I think that lurch to the left is really frightening a frightening thing. >> Well, and then let's say and you just you know brought up Israel. You know, that's a profound betrayal for my party on on Israel or not too. You know, the people that are winning a lot of these elections, you know, you know, one of their signature view is anti-anti-Israel
[00:23:16] and borderline just, you know, raw anti-Semitism in from a lot of these candidates now too. And that's that's exactly where where we are. Um and now that has isolated me in the party and just calling that what that is. I mean, that that's that's dangerous and now that that's where one of the things that we happen to agree on. That's the right side [snorts] of history for me and that's a >> I mean, maybe one of the best things
[00:23:45] that can happen is Shapiro continues to do well in Pennsylvania. Irrespective of which party you align with, a prominent Jew winning in Pennsylvania, running that state well is a very good sign actually for the rest of the country that there is common ground in that anti-Semitism is much more in check than the perception. >> Shapiro, we had also on >> No, I think Josh is fantastic. >> Yeah, and he you know, has a lot of disagreements
[00:24:08] about us maybe uh going into this war and, you know, maybe being egged into doing it. Uh and and by the way, Fetterman, um if you're look or Freiberg, if you're looking for the source of why people feel comfortable saying these terrible things, you can look no further than Trump and what he said about McCain being a war hero. That started this actually, this rhetoric. And now everybody wants to one-up it. He said he's not a war hero and he got
[00:24:37] captured. That's where this started. Sachs >> Oh, please. You're trying to blame Trump for the fact that a Democratic candidate in Maine has a swastika tattoo on his face? >> No, the rhetoric >> Okay. Okay. All right. >> started with Trump. The rhetoric and he needs >> We're in tedious land, but fortunately we're not interviewing you, Jay Cal. >> [laughter] >> Let me ask Senator Fetterman a a question. So, I appreciate your common sense views on
[00:25:03] AI, on capitalism, on all the things we're talking about. And I think that the people in Pennsylvania appreciate it. I think you're very popular there. But I'm curious, do you ever get worried that you might get primary in the Democratic Party when when you come up? Because I mean the Bernie Sanders wing is powerful. They have a lot of black activists. They're very noisy. I mean, do you ever I mean, I appreciate your
[00:25:30] maverick streak and your independence, but do you how do you think about that risk? >> Well, a seat or a job is is not I always going to be I'm going to be honest and I'm always going to have you know, my votes or my opinions are going to be what I happen to believe is is true. You know, it's not a seat worth trying to maintain if I'm going to lie or to pretend that things aren't absolutely true. Yeah, absolutely. I can
[00:25:56] be be primary and there are some Democrats that are there angry at me. If they're angry at me for supporting Israel, yeah, they have at it. If they're angry at me that I think it's wrong to shut down the government, that's fine. If if they're angry at me because I I refuse to call him a Nazi or a fascist or a piece of [ __ ] I'll never do that. You can hold me on that too. But what's really strange in that the
[00:26:20] truth is somebody that votes like a 93% of Democratic line. And if I change my party, there was a lot of palace intrigue that I'm going to change the party and I'm I'm never going to do that. And if I did, I could change you know, I could announce right now, I am changing it right now. My votes aren't going to change. My views everything. I wouldn't vote any differently. Things I happen to believe. And and if if
[00:26:46] Democrats run me out of the party, they will be attacking a committed Democrat that votes your line 93% of the time because we're in a New York time right now that I think things are more important than trying to I I know what pays the bills as a Democrat now. Literally. W- Campaigns are based on Trump. Literally, in their campaign commercials. Yes. And in their emails and outrage. You know, it's constant rage bait. I I refuse to engage in that
[00:27:21] and I'm going to be the an example of what I think's entirely appropriate. And and a lot of the conversations are driven by people that represent very, you know, safe blue state seats. Now, uh like that's why Pennsylvania keeps people honest here and people are going to remember in 2028, oh yeah. Oh, I want to be bipartisan. I want to get along. You know, like people don't believe you. You know, like they remember what what
[00:27:51] they've said and how people behave. Uh so, that's where I'm at. So, yeah, I could be primary, but what's more important to be uh the truthful what I thinks are important values and remind people that the things we used to believe in, you know, I I think >> Senator, I want to I want to I want to just move to just domestic policy and economics for a second. If you you meant you said this incredible story in the green room which maybe you can
[00:28:22] start off with, which is the quantum of people that reach out to you every week to mostly complain about various companies. But just use that as an insight maybe to talk about AI because that's a huge part of your state. It's also a huge part of the American economy. And maybe compare it to what happened with shale and oil cuz there's a lot of commonalities. I think it's quite interesting. >> Yeah, it's uh I don't know if he gets the same amount,
[00:28:48] but on an average week, we have 14 million people in Pennsylvania almost. On an average week, I'll get something like 100,000 outreaches to me. Uh letters, emails, phone calls, and across different issues. And you can almost see when the activist are mobilizing groups to come and and make the case on certain things. And I do a call every 2 weeks that's a sort of an open mic where you get about 10,000 people to show up. And the the
[00:29:16] number of data center calls, data centers have become uh a much big bigger and pervasive thing. And just to put this in perspective, David David was there. Uh Dean and I hosted an energy and innovation summit in Pennsylvania last July. We had $92 billion of investment committed. We had the energy CEOs, the AI CEOs, big investors, global investors. We had uh Senator Fetterman came, Governor Shapiro came, the president came, the cabinet came. It was
[00:29:44] amazing. And that's By By the way, that's what you need. Uh winning is a team sport, and winning in AI is a team sport, and you need all those players at the table. Um and so it was a it was a real success. And since then, there's been enormous investments made in Pennsylvania. I visited uh one just the other week, Homer City, 4.4 gigawatts of power from a coal plant that's being transitioned to uh natural gas. 3.4 gigs
[00:30:09] is going to go into a a data center complex. Uh a gigawatt's going back on the grid to hopefully bring down energy prices. So, this is this is happening across Pennsylvania, but the opposition is growing, and it's clear >> organic part to this? Like is cuz it's very hard to understand what's happening when you have these kind of dark forces, dark pools of money? >> I can't >> is there a legitimate like I don't want
[00:30:32] to have this in my backyard for X, Y, and Z? >> enormous misinformation, and I think that misinformation is largely being driven by China and outside forces. And then there's just legitimate not on not understanding, not knowing. And we need to do a much better job of making sure that the outlines of what these data centers mean to communities is clear. And and and frankly, there needs to be a much clearer covenant of what it means. If
[00:30:59] you're going to have a data center in your community, and you're a township supervisor, here's what you know. Um you're going to they're going to bring more energy they're going to use. They're going to protect their water with closed-loop. Um they're going to give this much to the tax base. They're going to build schools or infrastructure, whatever going to build. >> Isn't that first part the only thing that matters in people's minds? I just
[00:31:18] don't want my energy to bill go up. >> No. Um because as soon as you get through that, they move to the next thing, which is water. And then the the schools are going to be crowded, and there's like So the schools are going to be crowded because there'll be new jobs. No, because there'll be new people, and they're not they're not making the connection to the tax base, the roads are going to be crowded. So there's a
[00:31:36] whole comprehensive case that needs to be made. And uh what uh Jamath was making the point, we went through this before. John and I went both lived through this with fracking. Huge campaign against, huge misinformation, lack of understanding, and 15 years later, I'd say there's pretty broad-based support for it. >> Yeah, well no, yeah, there's unlimited money. I mean, you know, they they someone finds some B-roll kind of a
[00:32:01] comment, and they put $10 million behind it, and they can they can turn you into the most extreme kinds of things. It's ironically, you know, originally people tried to convince people that I'm a socialist, and now people are like now I'm mega or whatever. I'm like, &quot;No, I'm just I haven't changed. My views are my views are are are the the same.&quot; And you know, I would tell people energy is national
[00:32:25] security. Look at what's happening in you know, in in Europe and other parts. Now, if the you don't have energy security, then your your national security is in danger. Now, AI is coming, and and what what he's done, he created this amazing symposium to remind people that you know, we need both. We need energy and Pennsylvania produces a lot of that. And now also AI is coming otherwise we'd still be using the spinny Jenny or whatever