[00:30:04] competency in fact your world class competencies one of them has to be raising capital and you need to do it better than everybody else and if you don't you are going to lose. Let me ask one follow up to that. Sorry you go ahead. Yeah. Um but the Middle East Yeah. I've heard theories the last couple days that big capital seekers are kind of right now because of what's going on in the Middle East with the Iran war
[00:30:26] Dubai Qatar Saudis are kind of going to close up the capital flowing to the US right now and is that real? I mean do you think that's a real threat? >> So look our Middle East business was supposed to go public in January and the Saudi market was went down 20% over like a 2-month period and that was like a massive damper on the situation. Now, part of it's part of that was because the oil prices had gone down so
[00:30:56] dramatically. And if you went into KSA, you went to the kingdom, everybody's like, "We need We need oil prices to go up." You know, that's the other side of the equation. So, I don't know what happened like I don't I'm not in the market raising money right at this moment and this is a 2-week old thing that I, you know, look, I see the news just like everybody else and I'm not out there calling while the war is going on and
[00:31:21] saying, "Hey guys, you got some money?" Um so, I don't know exactly what's going to happen, but if you are an optimist and you're like, "Okay, this isn't This is not going on forever." just like the tariffs it was the end of the world and then it wasn't very quickly. If you're an optimist about this situation and it won't be the end of the world maybe even a better world then we get to a better place and I think
[00:31:47] progress, abundance, the golden age happens and a lot of it is about all the things that are happening in AI, in physical AI and and and just the productivity gains that are coming in very massive ways. Yeah, I don't know it it was shock shock and awe and then hey, now we've got a steady state and let's hope that's what happens in Iran is that we can depose these evil dictators and replace it with something a little more stable. And related to
[00:32:15] this before we wrap, they're going to China, there's big trade deal being negotiated. What do you hope comes out of this Chinese thing? And what did you learn in China? Yeah, what would you learn and and what do you think would be great for America like what would you like to see and be like, "Man, that's going to set us all up. No more Look, here's the thing, if you go to China right now and you go and just take a
[00:32:33] tour of the manufacturing that's going on there just the manufacturing base The cities, especially if you've gone to China for a couple decades in a row. You're like, damn. Yeah. You so, let's just do two things. You go to Shenzhen, which before felt like Kansas City, but 50 years ago and really humid, which I guess Kansas City sometimes. But, you go there now and it's like one-upping Singapore. Right? Or so that's the city view. You're just
[00:33:07] experiencing a very awesome, you're like, this is advanced. And you just get the vibe and it's everywhere. And then you go and you start seeing the manufacturing base and you see what like Xiaomi is doing or any of the other there's so many scrappy guys, badass guys everywhere and you're like, F. They're hungry. So, does anybody remember the 2008 Olympics in Beijing? Anybody? Does anybody this is a little bit we're down rabbit hole. Does anybody
[00:33:37] remember the opening ceremony? And you're like, these mother are taking over. At least that's what they want to do. That shit's happening. So, I don't have any issue or this is not negativity for me. I'm like, these guys are killing it. The best idea is winning. They're fiercely they're fiercely going after truth and progress and they're making happen. Let's step up our game, okay? But we can also have a friendly game. Like we don't have
[00:34:07] to like be like the Detroit Pistons in the '90s, you know? >> Yes. We can we there there's a way >> the stands. Yeah. Yeah, you know. There's a way to do this right and there's a way to do it like adults. I hope that's where we would end up. Um I have a employee who cuz we we were we for for a long time were the largest built kitchen builders in China. I I an employee in China has an American wife. Okay? They both live in China.
[00:34:37] They're both from China originally, okay? But one of one of them to It would be great for him to work here on some things I'm doing. It's very hard to make that happen right now. Now, that's selfish like I like maybe selfish like I'm like there's a person I've been working with for over a decade. I'd love to continue here. Maybe there's other bigger picture items that I'm not dealing with. I'm not the geopolitical guy, but I'd love for
[00:35:03] there to be sort of good relations and good like like if you have a significant other in who is an American citizen, like do we have to make that hard? Is an example. >> Some normalcy would Something, you know, I'm just saying. Now, I agree like there are ways to do immigration properly. Like we effed it up super bad. Don't even get me started, but there's also there's good migration too. Like a lot of great innovators
[00:35:36] all over the place came from other places for their own version of the American dream. God bless. Free bird. And we don't have to that doesn't have to be a negative thing. And so I'd like to see more of that and um yeah, China's China's wild. So let's let's keep our eye on the ball and let's let's give them a run for their money, too. >> it up for TK. >> [applause] >> All right. Well done, brother. Thanks, brother.
[00:36:01] That's good. Good to see you, brother. Wow. Michael Dell. >> [applause] >> My lord. Texas native. Michael >> born in Houston. >> Well, I missed the the opening. We we jumped to the music, but you started Dell computer here in Austin with a thousand bucks. 42 years ago in my dorm room at uh Doby at UT. Uh about a 10 days before I finished my freshman semester. Moving. And it's been working out pretty good. >> [laughter]
[00:36:37] >> Yeah, there's been some bumps in the road, but yeah, it's generally generally worked out okay. You know, we'll have about 140 billion in revenue this year, so Yeah, it's okay. >> Hey, it compounds over time, doesn't it? >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, you start small and just keep adding and there you go. That's how it goes. It's just that easy. >> [laughter] >> But [gasps] why Texas? Like I think this is an important thing. We're in Austin.
[00:37:04] Jason lives here. David Sacks lives here now. More people are moving from California to Austin. Why Austin? Why Texas? Why is it work here? And is it getting better? Or has it just always worked? You know, I think Texas has had a uh, you know, low-tax, pro-growth uh, environment for a long time and pro, you know, sort of progressive business climate. And you know, if if you sort of look at the the growth of the Texas economy relative to the rest
[00:37:38] of the United States without Texas, you know, Texas just kind of looks like a better version of the US economy. >> [snorts] >> And uh, you know, you now you've got uh, Austin is sort of just about in the top 10 cities in in the United States. So, you've got uh, when that happens, you'll have four of the 10 largest cities in America in Texas. One out of 10 children born in the United States born in Texas. Uh, more New York Stock Exchange
[00:38:11] companies in Texas than in New York or anywhere else. And uh, you know, you've got University of Texas here in Austin, which I would always think of as kind of the wellspring for a lot of the companies that are here, certainly ours. And you know, long history of of uh innovative, pioneering spirit, and entrepreneurship. And it's been a fantastic place for us. And part of this, I think Freeberg and Michael, is what's happened in the other
[00:38:47] great cities, or what were once great cities. My hometown, New York, got to spend 10 years in LA and in the last 12 in the Bay Area. And what's happening there is incredibly un-American, uh and they're decelerating when compared I think maybe the gap maybe in the disparity from these um two locations has gotten greater, yeah? And you're seeing a lot more people say life there, here in Austin, seems a lot better than the life I'm living in New
[00:39:18] York, LA, or in in the Bay Area. Yeah, well, I've got a lot of new friends and neighbors, you know, that that have that have that have come. And certainly, I mean, if if you look at the the the migration statistics, Texas has attracted an enormous number of people. And and look, I mean, when you when you when you look at the environment here and compare it to the other kind of situations that are going on, uh it's it's it's very attractive. But,
[00:39:48] you know, it's it's kind of been great for a long time. So, uh it's not really new news to us that have been here a while. Yeah, Elon had a great experience when he was building the the Gigafactory over here. They let you do stuff here. Yeah, basically, you know. They let him build it. Which he said it was like an incredible experience for him, because in California, they didn't let him build you know, these factories. He In fact,
[00:40:14] the Tesla factory that in Fremont was just an old ancient factory that he was able to retrofit. So, uh there's something going on here as well with the data centers. And then that's actually I think very close to what you're working on at Dell. Maybe you could talk a little bit about the data center boom that's going on in Texas that maybe people aren't paying attention to. Sure. Well, there's, you know, obviously been enormous build-out
[00:40:35] of AI infrastructure and that requires, you know, lots of new data centers, lots of power. Texas, you know, has an enormous uh advantage there relative to other states. A lot of power, a lot of land, and it's and and you can build stuff, right? So, there's there's been a massive build-out particularly in some of the cities in and towns in West Texas where there's not a lot of population. And so, they're not really too opposed to having data
[00:41:07] centers out in the middle of nowhere where there's land and power. And so, um Yeah, I mean, the the the demand for tokens is enormous. You know, we've been building these AI data centers not just here in Texas, but around the world. And, you know, the growth in that has been tremendous. You know, we we introduced the the first H100 server It was literally a couple weeks before Chat GPT was announced. >> [snorts]
[00:41:38] >> And, you know, uh the progression of our business in that area sort of gone from like 2 billion to 10 billion to 25 billion to this year it'll be like 50 billion. So, so tremendous growth. And when you when you think about what these models are creating, there's this face change that's happened in computing, right? We we we had 60 years of calculating and computing. Now we have machines that are thinking and
[00:42:08] helping us think. And so, the demand for that kind of intelligence and you know, the models are amazing, but they're also the worst they'll ever be and they're continuing to improve. And so we just see uh a lot more demand than supply and it's happening not just in the hyperscalers and the cloud service providers, it's happening in 4,000 enterprises where we building these these Dell AI factories. It's happening in sovereign AI, you
[00:42:41] know, like Palantir and you know, people want to protect their data, but also use AI on it. They want to bring the AI to where their data is. And you know, when this kind of started a few years ago, we had some really sophisticated uh large companies, think think of like Fortune 100 and they started, you know, buying these AI servers from us and and uh they kind of knew what they were doing, right? You know, and and uh we
[00:43:09] said, "Well, what what are you doing?" All right. Yeah. And >> [clears throat] >> they they were they were kind of taking uh building their own models. They were taking open source models. They were running them. Some of them were were algorithmic traders or, you know, derivatives of machine learning. And of course um they needed a lot of help in in doing that cuz it it it was sort of a complicated thing. So, about 2 years ago we we put
[00:43:34] together this product that we we we we we called the Dell AI factory. And now we've got 4,000 plus of these and it's kind of running rampant across enterprises. How do you think about the payback time on the investment that's being made? The administration put in place this accelerated depreciation rule or by the company >> very helpful actually. Yeah. >> So, just for folks to understand that a little bit, like if you spend a hundred
[00:44:06] billion dollars this year building and data centers and buying infrastructure for those data centers, you get to write off a hundred percent of that this year. Correct. >> it, so you don't pay taxes. You pay way much fewer taxes. >> in place for 10 years, I think. >> That's a 10-year deal, so it's accelerating the investment. How much is that helping versus how are you seeing folks rationalize the investment relative to the return
[00:44:32] they're going to make and over what time scale? This is still the big question. Is the money really there? The hyperscalers, maybe they're starting to come up, but end usage, end states, are we kind of, hey, wait and see, we don't know yet, or folks are getting 20% ROIC starting in year one after they've made the investment? You know, I I I can tell you in in our business in in our company, we definitely see plenty of use
[00:44:57] cases where the ROI or the improvement in productivity efficiency is 20% or or greater. The right away gets there. Yeah, I mean, it it's you know, it's not like you just hit a button and you get 20%, right? There There's There's work required in thinking through the processes. And you know, it's worth a little bit describing that. So, you know, when you have a a any company, its processes and tools and technology
[00:45:27] are a function of what was available at the time it created those things. And so, what you sort of have to do is step back and say, all right, what's the trajectory of the improvement of the tools? What outcome are we trying to create? And now let's simplify and standardize the processes, get all the tools together, get all the data together, and then apply the technology. And this really has to be done in kind
[00:45:56] of a tops-down way. Uh you can't sort of do it spontane- in you know, in in silos are not going to spontaneously improve themselves and often that means that you're completely changing the way the organization works. It's like a wholesale re-architecture. It's a it's a re-imagining of the way a company works and you know, I mean the way I described this to our team about 3 years ago is you know, we were going to have a new
[00:46:24] competitor 5 years from now that would be 2 years from now, you know, that was in every business that we're in except they were going to be faster and more innovative and more successful and lower cost and they were going to put us out of business. And the only way we were going to prevent that is is we're going to become that company and here's how we're going to do it and you know, it excited some people, it scared some
[00:46:47] people and but I actually believe that that's what's going to happen and and so we've been dramatically changing our business. I would say the biggest benefit by far is speed. We're much faster at being able to apply innovations and so, you know, you look at our at our infrastructure business last quarter grew 73%. Well, that's kind of unusual for a business of this size. And you know, this quarter we guided that it
[00:47:21] would grow even faster like 100% so. You've lived through a couple of paradigm shifts here. The PC revolution obviously you led that and then you of course had you know, client server, the network revolution, online, internet, mobile. >> mobile. >> Yeah. So, each one of those we saw massive disruption. We're talking in in the green room about hey, we used to have a typing pool, there was a mail room. All these things got abstracted
[00:47:47] away by the PC and networked PC revolution. But it took a decade or two. And this one's happening a lot faster, yeah? >> Yeah, this one I think it's it's like um you know, a quarter is like a year. Maybe maybe it's five times faster or something like that. But but back to your question, I I I would say maybe 10 or 15% of large companies have really figured this out and the rest of them are kind of fumbling around and you
[00:48:15] know, there's a tendency when when you hear about a new technology to like oh, let's just let's just go do it, you know, and show the boss, hey, we did AI, you know. Yeah, the board said we got to do AI. We got to do AI, guys. >> We need AI. Are you Are you proud of me, boss? You know? Yeah. Um and Look at what I made. Exactly. And I also think, you know, is an important point about about uh this which is you know, the barrier to technology
[00:48:43] adoption is is not technology. It's culture and leadership and courage, right? And and so Willingness to change and to adapt yourself. >> and you know, if you if you're in a business that you don't think it's changing very much or you know, heart change is really hard, right? And you you have to it can be very uncomfortable. You're like, well, we're going to stop doing that. Well, maybe we don't need this anymore. Particularly if