[00:15:20] So so language we there are still things that humans are great at and that unbeat like the goat, we're still the goat at certain things. Language is this epic compression. And um we need to find ways to compress cuz like when you think about how how we first started looking at the physical world is we saw everything. And you know what guys, and this is sort of obvious, like it doesn't matter what the cloud is
[00:15:45] doing if I'm driving. But like the car doesn't know that. It's pulling in every freaking data point and processing everything and it's it's you know, look, they've been about sort of carving out the things that don't matter and things like this, but there's ultra awesome versions of this and you can imagine how you can use language or things that look like language to communicate either amongst agents or sort of safety systems with a driving
[00:16:10] system to sort of get very efficient answers and to identify safety issues very efficiently. People don't know that you moved to Texas as of or most people don't know, but it's it's out there. Yeah. You moved here in December, so now you're a resident of Austin. >> Yeah, I was I'm about Thank you. It's very exciting for me. We've been getting to play some backgammon. >> Backgammon, cards, It's cards. We're having a good time. So, I've had a place
[00:16:41] on Lake Austin since 2021. And I go there. I'm an avid water skier, like You're impressive at water ski king, I have to say, like So, I've had a place in Austin for 5 years. Freaking love it. It's my weekend I would go 15 weekends a year. What do you think's going to happen in California? It's pretty messed up. Look, I I grew up in Cali. Like I grew up in Los Angeles. My parents were born and bred in Los Angeles, which basically makes them the
[00:17:10] founders of LA, okay? But um so that I have a lot of heart, like my whole family, everything, you know? It's pretty It's pretty It's I don't want to A lot A lot of us feel that way. >> want to get the violin out, but it's just but It's heartbreaking. The place It totally It's just the place you grew up. It's your home, you know? When you have to leave. Uh but it's getting weird out there. And uh it feels like it's getting weirder.
[00:17:39] And at some point that's it's just too weird. It's too weird. Do you think everyone's going to leave? I mean, it started with Elon, and it was like >> Yeah, he was in the right. >> We don't want Elon here, and then he's like, "Message received." >> Like, cool. Right. And then it kind of worked its way down the tech industry, and then the kind of it, you know, world of people building businesses and whatnot. And now it's kind of gotten so
[00:18:01] broad in terms of the group of people >> comedy, music, New Yorkers, restaurant tours. I mean, this place is much I'm not even talking about this. I'm just talking about everyone leaving LA or sorry, leaving California is almost like working down the path of Look, my the rest of my team's like, "Where When are we moving?" You know? They're like >> And how are you dealing with that? So, that was the question with like
[00:18:26] >> Got to buy a home on the lake. There are literally dozens of startup CEOs of call it successful or growing companies that I talk to who are like "Dude, I want to leave, but I got employees here. I got an office here. I got a facility here. I build stuff here. How am I going to leave?" >> yeah, I totally get it. It's a real thing. So, look, I think like most things uh sort of when it's time and it feels painful to do something,
[00:18:54] sometimes it's actually not as bad as you think. And you just got to make the move and lead and do it. Um and so uh that's kind of what that's kind of the process that almost like a mourning process I went through. And that's just what it is. And you're setting up a team here? Yeah, of course. Uh and I got that office right on the lake. Did you get that? Uh, it's it's we are negotiating No, it's all good. No, no, no, it's all good.
[00:19:20] We're negotiating right now. Okay. But I'm going to jet ski to work. No, literally, we were Is it Is it true story? Last year we're like driving up the thing and I was like, "Wow, I wonder who owns that?" He's like, "I will." And I was like, "Did you look at it?" He's like, "I looked at that." And I was like, "That's a That would be a nice one." But the the truth is, you know, I I and I had a couple people move
[00:19:42] here a couple years ago and they all had the same reaction. "Oh my god, I'm living in a place that's twice as big for half as much. The people here are dope. The food is dope. Everybody here is got this sense that we're building the future and it's just fun and we're all positive and, you know, for me, I got to live New York, LA, San Francisco. I I did three of the great cities in this country. This one feels the most
[00:20:06] like home to me, which is a very strange feeling to me, but it feels like everybody here wants to build the future and it's very diverse, you know, like it it all these different industries and people pursuing stuff. I I think this is the future. >> Yeah, here's the thing. Like you go to San Francisco and I still have a little nostalgia when I go to San Francisco, just having built Uber there and the whole thing. Um, I still get the
[00:20:29] you know, the butterflies. Just I did, you know, but it does have something magical. You you just can't take it away. And then you look at all of these bike lanes and these bus lanes that never have a bus or a bike in them. And cost $400 million to build 1 mile. And it's literally it's sort of like this subconscious desire to choke the city off. Now, remember, I look at things through roads. That's how I think. So, I'm just
[00:20:56] like, obviously, the city is totally busted. Yeah. No, but they they literally took Market Street and they're like, "What would be the optimal way to this up and virtue signal at the same time. And they're like, "Yeah, buses." And it's like, "Nobody's on the bus. Nobody takes the bus. It's a beautiful small town. San Francisco's Austin." That whole street is empty. It's painted red. Okay, so we Okay, so we all and complain nonstop on our
[00:21:23] group chat. When are you leaving San Francisco? When are you leaving? I'm number one, I get it. But Friedberg, when are you leaving? Okay, well, so >> chat, you're the best by far. Okay, so let me just A couple glasses of wine in. public-facing Friedberg And he's like, "You know, I think there's a better way to do this." And then there's like Darth Friedberg in group chat. He's like, "These people, these morons are morons.
[00:21:44] They're destroying society." He is like Darth [cheering] Friedberg in group chat. Am I lying? Am I lying? Is he the most Correct. Especially after a couple glasses of wine. When I start drinking, he's like takes a photo of a cliff. And he takes pictures. He's like, "Fourth beverage." And we're like, "Oh, it's worth staying up on the group chat." >> [laughter] >> And then I'm like, "I'll go and attack this congressman on Twitter." which I
[00:22:07] realized Yes, and then you got to delete the tweet. Yeah. Don't delete the tweet. >> Yeah, I delete the tweets. Okay, so >> [laughter] >> there's a group of people trying to raise $500 million to create like a tech/business coalition to go to Sacramento, which arguably is something that everyone's left and avoided doing forever cuz no one wants to spend time in freaking Sacramento fighting politicians. But it's almost like we're all falling off a
[00:22:32] cliff, it's time to do something. Do you think there's a realistic path back? Do you think the people can actually get their together? That even if $500 million came in, there's a way to kind of turn around the state, fix some of the policies. Do you think it's too late? >> think that Look, I would go I Look, anybody who's doing anything to fix things, I'm like, "Hell yeah, let's do something." The issue is we all grew up
[00:22:54] in the tech world which was like a libertarian place where you stay out of politics and that kind of It was that kind of vibe. It was just everybody was like that. Leave me alone. I want to make stuff. Yeah, I just I I'm not I don't do that. And that's obviously There's not a thing anymore. In California, I think the the ballot initiatives are very powerful and there's very clean ways to get something on the ballot. Love that. I think that
[00:23:22] your DAs who have decided we do not enforce crime at all anymore, that's like a sweet spot. Like I believe that I sort of have this aphorism. Truth and justice are the immune system for society. >> [snorts] >> When when the immune system is suppressed, all the social ills flare up. So, look for the places where truth and justice are being deteriorated, are being degraded, and say how do we get at that? Because if you get at that,
[00:23:57] everything else downstream will be better. So, that's kind of how I look at things and how I also determine whether the world's getting better or worse. When I say weird, I'm talking about truth and justice. That's what I mean when I say, "Oh, man, it's getting weird. It's getting weirder." Which means it's weird. I'm just talking about truth and justice. >> Well, I mean, and you look at the homeless industrial complex, you look at
[00:24:20] Chesa Boudin, which the all in pod, Sachs, myself in the pod, like we we literally led the recall of him. And then you have the same thing going on in LA where they were just like if somebody Gascon. Yeah, Gascon. I mean, we basically lost the script. You're running the city for the criminals. It literally is like a Batman movie. It's like Bane. I mean, here's here's the >> to arrest the criminals. Look, I was born in the darkness. I
[00:24:47] mean, these guys are lunatics. Yeah, look, I I know police officers in Los Angeles who are no longer police officers. And these are lifelong guys who protect and serve, that's in their blood or DNA. They want to protect people. They want the bad guys to be dealt with and they they almost have PTSD from what it is like to want to serve and see bad things happening and not being allowed to stop it. Yeah, nobody's got
[00:25:17] their back and they're not allowed to do their job. It's it's crazy and I it's getting weird. >> Okay, hey, I want to just go back to AI for >> Sorry for the darkness. >> no, I think it's good. >> I was trying to induce I'm trying to induce dark Freeburg. >> brought it up. I mean, someone bring me a tequila, I'll get going. Yeah, let's do it. Can we get a couple tequilas? >> was funny. I went on this podcast yesterday and the guy and I the first
[00:25:38] the guy was like the first hour was middle of the road. I was talking about tech and science and then like politics came up. He's like, so socialism. And he said like you lost it and then you were like he's like the energy went 10x and he Don't take yeah. So that'll come out in a couple weeks, but I was like it got me going. Okay, I want to talk about physical AI one more time. Yeah. So one of now that now that you're doing this,
[00:25:57] I saw a presentation the other day. Someone showed like a video of a squirrel jumping from one tree to another tree and they're like a tenth of a watt or something. Like like the biology is tuned and it's so perfect in terms of its efficiency of energy utilization to do physical things and we're taking these like big things of metal and motors and like actuators and if you add up or you compound all of the inefficiencies in the system, it's like
[00:26:24] 1200 watts to get the robot to walk four foot. Like >> Yeah. Like break apart not just the software, but the hardware layer and where we at in evolving things like actuators and the materials and everything else that's going to make physical AI work and scale. >> a lot with the questions you're asking are going down humanoid lane, which is like this thing and and everybody talks about how do you do the hand? It's
[00:26:51] almost like Terminator 2 type obsession with the hand, which is fair. Like it's a very critical part of it. I mean, look at the I like to look at the Achilles the quote-unquote Achilles tendon of any of these machines and you're like that's where the action is. This this is a couple other places. Um Look, I'm in the non-humanoid space. I mean, but in mechanical engineers have been dealing with actuators and you know, all
[00:27:18] the sort of electromechanical sort of interactions that make machines do certain things, but like I'm in the food machine space. So, I can tell you how to open a paper bag and put a put a a bowl in a paper bag without tearing the paper bag, but I am less into the I I forget the name perio they're they're the the senses to understand awareness and touch. Um I'm not in that game. Um so, when you're mining you're like
[00:27:51] you're not [snorts and clears throat] like, you know, you know, >> You're not threading a needle. You're not playing tennis. Um Certain things may be equivalent to tennis. So, look, the bottom line is we're seeing obviously all you have to do is go online and look at where the humanoids are going over time and how much better they're getting. Um it's wild and it's happening so freaking fast, but any humanoid demo starts with
[00:28:18] dancing and martial arts. Yeah. And we're sort of down specialized robot lane, which is gainfully employed robots. >> Yeah. So, I know I didn't totally answer the question on like the technology piece, but I just like do you agree that there's probably like a big opportunity for venture money and like research to go into material science actually yeah. >> For sure. Because if the physical AI stack manipulation and all of the
[00:28:47] related things around it is massive And so if you get the software working it's almost like the hardware has to catch up. Yes. We got a lot of investment to be >> I do. Well actually it's good that you bring this up. You know one of the things you pioneered at Uber was capital as a weapon and you were very thoughtful about hey if we can take this capital off the table then that's going to let's call it what it is it's going
[00:29:14] to be an advantage versus the competitors and these other competitors couldn't get that capital. That's now I think people have seen that playbook and they're like someone was like that was smart let me try. And it's at a different scale. Now that you've come out of stealth Yeah. Now that you've got and and people are starting to understand Yeah. starting today Yeah. how big your vision is capital as a weapon Yeah. This is I
[00:29:38] guess in your plan yeah? Well I mean here's the thing right so capital as a strategic weapon for its own sake is not a thing when it is actually a strategic weapon then it is a thing and what I mean by that is like in the Uber world early days if you didn't have capital didn't matter how good your app was because Masa's going to put a billion dollars in your competitor and you're going to lose 20% market share tomorrow. So a critical
[00:30:04] competency in fact your world class competencies one of them has to be raising capital and you need to do it better than everybody else and if you don't you are going to lose. Let me ask one follow up to that. Sorry you go ahead. Yeah. Um but the Middle East Yeah. I've heard theories the last couple days that big capital seekers are kind of right now because of what's going on in the Middle East with the Iran war
[00:30:26] Dubai Qatar Saudis are kind of going to close up the capital flowing to the US right now and is that real? I mean do you think that's a real threat? >> So look our Middle East business was supposed to go public in January and the Saudi market was went down 20% over like a 2-month period and that was like a massive damper on the situation. Now, part of it's part of that was because the oil prices had gone down so
[00:30:56] dramatically. And if you went into KSA, you went to the kingdom, everybody's like, "We need We need oil prices to go up." You know, that's the other side of the equation. So, I don't know what happened like I don't I'm not in the market raising money right at this moment and this is a 2-week old thing that I, you know, look, I see the news just like everybody else and I'm not out there calling while the war is going on and
[00:31:21] saying, "Hey guys, you got some money?" Um so, I don't know exactly what's going to happen, but if you are an optimist and you're like, "Okay, this isn't This is not going on forever." just like the tariffs it was the end of the world and then it wasn't very quickly. If you're an optimist about this situation and it won't be the end of the world maybe even a better world then we get to a better place and I think
[00:31:47] progress, abundance, the golden age happens and a lot of it is about all the things that are happening in AI, in physical AI and and and just the productivity gains that are coming in very massive ways. Yeah, I don't know it it was shock shock and awe and then hey, now we've got a steady state and let's hope that's what happens in Iran is that we can depose these evil dictators and replace it with something a little more stable. And related to
[00:32:15] this before we wrap, they're going to China, there's big trade deal being negotiated. What do you hope comes out of this Chinese thing? And what did you learn in China? Yeah, what would you learn and and what do you think would be great for America like what would you like to see and be like, "Man, that's going to set us all up. No more Look, here's the thing, if you go to China right now and you go and just take a