[00:34:44] power sellers probably transitioned over to having stores at some point. What did eBay miss? Was it purely execution? And is there still an opportunity to win back that market? >> eBay could I mean and and I'm not advocating I mean this is not something I would not go head-to-head against Amazon today. But I mean eBay could have been Amazon. So when you look at what Amazon has built, I mean everything from uh taking inventory and their principles
[00:35:12] of they provide a great customer experience and so I mean that's why we all love shopping on Amazon and as a seller seller central is a very powerful platform and sellers generally like it too. I don't know if they necessarily like the margins, but they can move a lot of inventory on Amazon. So, eBay by doing nothing has basically carved out a niche in certain categories where Amazon isn't strong because they're strong in
[00:35:49] other categories and you know, you're buying a a phone charger or new products. It's not necessarily the place where you want to search for like a uh uh a unique baseball card or a a hard to find pen or a used auto part. I don't know if it was necessarily through strategy or just because they ended up they ended up basically like defaulting into those categories cuz their largest competitor was focused on other things.
[00:36:24] >> Do you think Amazon's over earning right now? Cuz I I think the point you make resonates with me. I've been involved in a number of businesses I've been on the board of and I see the margin that Amazon takes for seller from sellers and everyone's frustrated about it. It almost feels to me like everyone's hungry for an alternative, but the reason you stay on Amazon is the reach and the audience that you get with
[00:36:45] Amazon. So, there's not a lot of other places that offer a competitive alternative to Amazon to those sellers. eBay's got a pretty big audience. I mean, do you think that Amazon's over earning in that sense? And is there an opportunity for eBay to step up and compete in that sense? >> They charge a lot of money to their sellers. I I agree with you. And um sellers like it because they move a lot of inventory, but they don't like the
[00:37:13] margins. >> The problem would obviously be inventory, right? I mean, if eBay were to go in that direction and you were running eBay, what do you think you do about inventory and logistics? >> I would not be interested in taking in firsthand inventory. I like the marketplace model and and the categories where eBay is doing well are categories where GameStop is doing especially well also. But um going head-to-head against Amazon
[00:37:45] is um it's uh it's it's it's not the most attractive business. eBay is notorious for having bought and then sold a number of big businesses. They bought PayPal and then later spun it out and divested and they bought Skype for 2.6 billion in 2005 and then sold 70% of it for 2 billion in 2009 and then they got lucky with Microsoft overpaying in 2011 and they made another 2 billion on it. So they they netted a good profit on on the Skype sale. So
[00:38:16] when you think about the audience that eBay has the the user base, there's a lot of ancillary businesses you could get into. When you look at PayPal, when you look at Skype, were those strategic errors or were they tactical errors? Meaning, they were good strategic moves, but they were mismanaged and not well integrated, not well run after the acquisition. What do you think happened there? >> Well, if you look today at eBay, I mean,
[00:38:40] I I like focus. So, them focusing on core eBay makes sense. I mean, my strategy at Chewy wasn't creating all these other subprs for different geographies. It was always focusing on on Chewy. So, um, the focus is helpful. I'd say in eBay's case, hasn't resulted in significant GMV growth, if at all, or earnings growth. But, I do like being focused. Now, I mean, they've recently made acquisitions, which uh don't make sense,
[00:39:20] but generally speaking, like I like focusing on a singular brand, and especially with a business that's global, there's a a lot of upside, and you know, eBay plays in a ton of categories already. So, it's hard to do multiple things exceptionally well. >> Yeah. The other example, obviously, StubHub, which they bought and then sold to the founder, Eric at VGO. for four billion years later but also didn't didn't really transition well.
[00:39:48] Does that mean that eBay can't really do well in other marketplaces or do you think it's about building the product organically in a better way to expand into other marketplace verticals? >> Yeah, building it organically through eBay and through focus um is is where I where I where I believe makes the most sense. what's happened with the business in the post Dono era. He left I think what did he leave a couple years ago 2015 and
[00:40:21] it's been about 11 years. I mean if someone were to ask you hey give me your summary of what's happened to eBay in the last 11 years how would you kind of talk through what's happened in the business? I mean if you just look at how they've done in the past since co every important metric is down uh GMV is down, active users is down by 30 million. Operating earnings is down. Revenue now is you know basically essentially break even. It's up a few
[00:40:50] points and operating expenses is up significantly. Their operating expenses now are for a business that has no inventory. They're operating their revenues are their operating expenses are over half of their revenues. So that's a business that they're not growing. Everybody else in e-commerce is growing and they're making less money and they're spending a lot more and their sellers frankly aren't happy. Like it's
[00:41:20] you talk to sellers and in order for them to do business on eBay, they have to use all kinds of thirdparty tools outside of eBay because eBay is not even providing those tools. I mean, Amazon seller central is is uh is like soup to nuts. You could pretty much do everything in seller central. Whereas with eBay, uh, it's a pain and and they alienate their sellers. I mean, they had concierge programs for their top sellers and now it's like they take
[00:41:54] their sellers for granted and they're taking advantage of them. So, the sellers in a marketplace model like eBay, the sellers are the customer. You make your sellers happy, you give them the tools, they bring more inventory online, and you end up ultimately doing more sales, and they're not working with their sellers to make them happy. So, it's not that complicated. You talk to the sellers on the phone, you talk to the
[00:42:22] top sellers, you ask them what are the pain points, and you get the engineering team on the phone with the sellers, and you start basically banging them out. But, you know, I guess uh existing management team doesn't roll up their like they're not going to roll up their sleeves. They're going to go to outside consulting firms to tell them how to run their business. >> Is that what's happened? What you state seems obvious? So, do you think it's
[00:42:48] that management's simply been complacent and collecting a paycheck and no one's acting like an owner, no one actually knows how to execute, or do you think they fundamentally would disagree with that strategy, those points that you're making? Well, I mean, they're never going to admit it, but I would I would bet everything that they're working with multiple outside consultants and for a different for a lot of different reasons
[00:43:15] and they're not making their sellers happy. So, their sellers are on the platform because they do a lot of business on the platform and they want to move product, but they don't feel like eBay is wants to make them succeed and is working with them to do more business together. So that's what happens when you go from a business that founder operator run to business with a professional management team is you know
[00:43:47] you lose the the one-on-one and the just the rolling up your sleeves really getting into solving the root cause of problems. Do you believe in building long range operating plans? Meaning, would you articulate a strategic vision for eBay and then write out what you're going to do over the next 3, four, five years so that the shareholders that are considering your acquisition offer can see both your vision and your plan for
[00:44:20] execution on that vision over the next several years? or are you much more of a responsive manager where you're going to go in and diagnose and be much more of a tactician in iterating almost in an agile way the business to success. How do you kind of think about presenting how you're going to be more successful in operating this business than existing management? >> So there are three areas. Number one is on immediately improving earnings
[00:44:49] through cutting costs and pulling $2 billion of costs out of the business and on the operating base of, you know, close to 5.5 billion of expenses. Um, and $2.4 billion spent on sales and marketing for essentially no user growth. um there's a lot of money to pull out there. So you have the immediate increase in earnings through cost cutting. That's basically one. And then there's two growth vectors that um I'm
[00:45:28] very much interested in. Number one is live commerce and there's a large competitor that is completely crushing it and eBay has the users. eBay has the brand, they have a platform, but the platform sucks for a lot of different reasons. Uh, and they don't have the content creators on the platform and nobody even really knows eBay Live exists. There's like an application process. I talked to sellers and they're telling me
[00:45:58] like they've applied to be uh to be a seller and they are waiting to get approved. It's like they're basically stopping themselves from being successful and getting content creators onto the platform. Uh, and then the entire back end of eBay Live also sucks. So, live commerce, the TAM is like 400 billion. It's growing very quickly in the US. It's very popular in Asia. And eBay Live should be significantly larger. They should be the category
[00:46:29] leader in the space. and they have like at max a few hundred people you know in um you know basically watching watching their uh watching watching their sales. So that's a huge huge growth opportunity for them to start doing really well in live commerce. Uh and the benefit also we have with the stores beyond basically fixing the platform the front end and the back end uh using the stores there's 1,600 essentially nodes that can be used as
[00:47:05] studios for creators. They could be used as fulfillment and logistics and ultimately allowing sellers and content creators to do what they do best which is create content and we can help them on photography, we can help them on fulfillment, we can help them on logistics um and we can also do the authentication and that extends to the marketplace model as well. So uh I would focus a lot on on growing the live commerce side of things beyond the
[00:47:37] cost cutting. And then the third thing is and this is something that I have not spoken about before publicly but eBay today is the leader in physical items, physical collectibles as an example. And so I would extend the that into digital collectibles. And essentially, if you look at all of these in-game items, AAA titles that people are accumulating, skins, weapons, all of these things, taking eBay and building a marketplace where you can
[00:48:20] provide liquidity for in-game digital items. Essentially, it's what NFTTS could have, people thought they were, but ultimately they had no real utility. In-game items actually have real utility. And if you look at all of these collectibles, frankly, they're an ego play. You own art. Like, what is that? At the end of the day, it's an ego play. Um, if you look at trading cards, I mean, it's a piece of cardboard in a
[00:48:51] piece of plastic. and they're very very very popular, but there's no real utility to them other than being able to tell people you've got these really a really unique trading card. But if you look at in-game digital items, there's no marketplace that is providing liquidity for them. And so I would use eBay to uh to provide liquidity for in-game digital items. And I believe that addressable market is significantly larger than
[00:49:21] uh could be much larger than eBay's marketplace on physical items and no one's doing it. And and this should already exist and it's kind of like it's crazy that it doesn't exist. >> The eBay board has rejected your offer. Is it that they're looking at Ryan Cohen saying, &quot;Hey, you're a guy that ran Chewy for a few years and sold it and you've been running GameStop. You've never really operated a business of this
[00:49:45] scale. We're not going to hand over our shares for your shares and put you in charge of this overall enterprise. You don't have the experience. You don't have the skills. You don't have the competency. What's their rationale for rejecting your bid? And what's the feedback, the frank feedback you've heard either behind closed doors or through, you know, third parties about what's going on here? >> Well, they put out a rejection letter
[00:50:09] which said that our offer was incredible. And there was a lot of uncertainty and you know frankly and by the way I mean this is expected. They don't want to hand over the reigns. They're making a lot of money and so I completely understand why they're taking the position that they're they're taking. But you know they they spelled it out in the rejection letter. And number one was uh you know that like the the financing
[00:50:44] uncertainty which frankly if we can't get the financing it means that eBay can't get the financing because we're getting the financing off of eBay's balance sheet. But there's been very you know there has not been very much engagement from the management board level. Frankly there's there's been really no engagement. I mean they're they're playing games. they pointed us to their highpriced advisors and then when we reach out to schedule a meeting
[00:51:11] they they don't schedule the meeting. So So when you first started having this idea sitting on the John and you're like I'm going to move forward with this thing. I'm assuming at some point you called bankers and talked about structure around this to figure out how do we put this bid together. Where do you go down the path where you said let's do half cash and then convince them to take our stock and basically roll their stock into our
[00:51:42] stock and let us run the business versus raise the capital to do an allcash offer for the company? Is it impossible for you guys to convince shareholders, investors, capital providers, large institutions, banks, lenders, and so on to put together a syndicate of $56 billion of cash? So, you could make this an allcash offer, which would make it a lot harder for them to simply reject so easily. Maybe you can walk us through
[00:52:10] the banker conversations and the process you've gone through in thinking about structure here. >> Ultimately, the decision is who do you want to run the business? And who do you think is more competent to run the business? And who's going to maximize shareholder value? Because by giving existing shareholders, GameStop shares, uh, GameStop, the combined company, the at least in the very near to medium future, the earnings are coming from
[00:52:43] eBay. So, they're going to continue owning eBay. offering them 50% cash, 50% stock at a premium to where we bought it. And essentially, they get to continue owning eBay, except you've got someone that is highly incentivized to maximize shareholder value, knows a thing or two about e-commerce and running the business efficiently, >> but why not go all cash, Ryan? Like why not raise the capital? If you can raise half the cash to do the
[00:53:19] bid, why not raise all the cash? Sell your shares, sell GameStop shares to investors to raise the cash that are aligned with you rather than the investors that own those eBay shares and then go make them an allcash offer. >> I mean, that is not what we've presented today and that's a lot of cash to to come up with. So, um, you know, uh, we don't have, uh, $60 billion of cash just lying around, >> right? Well, tell me about the the the
[00:53:54] owners. Have you spoken to any of the shareholders at eBay? And do you have a view on how they're thinking about voting their shares? My understanding is there was recently a rejection on the ability to call a special shareholder meeting. There was a vote that failed to reduce the threshold to 10% of shares outstanding. It's currently at 20%. So that failure means you cannot call a special shareholder meeting without 20% of the shares
[00:54:19] calling for it. Is that right? Um yeah, it was close, but that's right. And so if you go through and start talking to the actual owners of eBay today, because it's a pretty broadly owned, institutionally owned stock, have you started having those institutional conversations to see where folks are at and how they're feeling about management and how they're feeling about your strategy and your ability to deliver value for them over the next
[00:54:45] couple years? >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I don't want to um I don't want to get into individual shareholder discussions, but >> the consensus has generally been aligned which is they love the business um and yeah they they see a lot of opportunities. So, we'll see what ends up ultimately happening and maybe the composition could shift because, you know, if you love the business, you might not want 50% cash. You might want to stay