[00:14:53] way to access this intelligence in a way that doesn't leak your edge away to do so at this point now is kind of becoming derelict and irresponsible. Back then you could be experimenting because you didn't know any better. But now when you know all of these data points to continue to make the same decision I think is really insanely dumb. All right Dave Friedberg you are also a CEO of the surging oh and you have a lot of
[00:15:19] proprietary data. Let me ask you point blank. Do you trust your data to the frontier model companies or are you doing what there seems to be consensus here protecting your data protecting the crown jewels so to speak and using open source are you experimenting with it and just yes or no do you trust the frontier models with Ohio's data so I'll tell you there's been an effort by anthropic to go around and sign up life sciences
[00:15:47] companies to contributing to a new life sciences focused model that effort has been they're approaching these large companies with large proprietary data sets and saying hey if you share your data we will give you early access some sort of proprietary value sign this NDA and you can participate with us and I think nearly everyone I've spoken with has woken up to the fact that they are basically trying to commoditize
[00:16:13] everyone's business because fundamentally if all of the tens of billions of dollars you as a life sciences company have invested in experiments and product development and you've generated all of this proprietary data along the way. That data is a true asset of your organization. It's an asset that you've spent billions of dollars developing. And by handing it over to a model company to then combine with other
[00:16:38] people's data, you are effectively commoditizing the asset that you have, the one kind of core differentiation that you have. And so everyone is largely saying no. The way I see this evolving is very much in line with what Alex Karp suggested on CNBC. If you go back a couple of years, I think we all assumed there was going to be this large hub, large spoke model for AI model development and deployment. Meaning
[00:17:03] there would be these very large clusters. These large clusters would be ultimately capital advantaged. So those who had the most capital, which is why everyone's raised tens and hundreds of billions of dollars, would be able to train models. And then there would be these large spokes, these large clusters for deploying those models with inference. So everyone's using the NeoClouds and the hyperscalers and whatnot to run models. And then maybe
[00:17:27] they've got their own proprietary data layer that sits in front of that. But I think what everyone's realizing is they're better off developing their own weights and their own models using either an open-source basis or there might be some intermediary business model that evolves. Meaning there will end up being several large hubs that do all of the core foundational model development. Then smaller hubs meaning
[00:17:51] like clusters for training that enterprises will use to train and develop their own proprietary advantaged models using their own data and then there will be these much more distributed spokes because I think everyone's also realizing the value of onrem by putting a set of servers and building a cluster in your own data center or even in your own enterprise you know IT closet you can run a lot of the workflows that you're using AI for
[00:18:20] for your enterprise locally. And so I think the model is shifting where we're going from large hubs, large spokes to large hubs, medium hubs, and then a distributed spoke model where there will still be, you know, NeoClouds and hyperscalers that are being used for inference, but people will also have their own inference instances that they're going to run for their own enterprise setting. And everyone I think
[00:18:42] is walking this path and they're going to walk this path over the next couple of months because they're realizing quite quickly that in order to compete in a world of commoditizing knowledge and commoditizing capabilities, you have to leverage the core differentiating assets that you have, which means you have to build your own models and you will likely end up having to run your own inference with your own proprietary models.
[00:19:03] >> Yeah. And to just give a a little bit of texture to how that's going to look, if you follow the Microsoft example, which we've talked about here before, Lotus 123, Word Perfect were their partners. They were replaced with Excel. They were replaced obviously with Microsoft Word. You don't even know those other two. Word Perfect, Wordar, Lotus 123, Vizzyalc. That's exactly what they have to do. And they have no choice but to do
[00:19:27] that now because they have a trillion dollar market cap. They must win the application layer. And Sam Alman went to Y Combinator and he said, &quot;We'll give you $2 million worth of free tokens.&quot; And I came out and I said, &quot;Listen, there's nothing personal against Sam. You know, Sam's a very aggressive dealmaker.&quot; And he wants to get access to those startups cuz he knows having run Y Combinator that if he can get
[00:19:52] their innovations, those founders latest thoughts about what's around the corner, he can incorporate them into the platform. There is no free pizza. There's no free beer. When somebody like Sam Walman comes to you and says, &quot;Here's some free tokens. Your alarm should go up.&quot; Zuckerberg did the same thing. He said, &quot;Hey, I'm going to give people a bunch of access. Going to give them money. Come to the Facebook
[00:20:10] platform.&quot; Nobody who went to bed with Microsoft in the 80s, Facebook in the 2000s, or Sam Alman now in in the 2020s did not wake up with their throats slit. This is a message to founders. If you partner with any of these people, they will slit your throat and take your business wholesale. There is nothing to discuss here. Don't trust them. Use your own models. >> I think I think it's less Sam and Open AI to be honest. I think that the
[00:20:37] diversity of Open AI in terms of its revenue streams and specifically its consumer business may actually be its savior in a relative value basis. Right now, OpenAI equity I think is more reasonably priced than entropic equity. And the reason is not because of the quality of the models or the teams because they're both excellent teams, but the reason is that OpenAI can fall back on a really healthy consumer business.
[00:21:03] >> Sure, >> the difficulty that Anthropic is going to face is that I think what Sax said is true that they have lost this fundamental trust about being able to stay within their sandbox. And if you consistently demonstrate this tendency to learn and then to try to disrupt your host organism, eventually you get sort of pigeonholed and you get cornered and people find ways to work around it. And so, look, I sent that text that I had about the or
[00:21:34] that post that I had about uh our testing of of our harness on these Chinese models to somebody well known in the industry. And he says, &quot;Look, if you also add some post training with all of the telemetry that you're going to get from the harness itself, he's like, I suspect you'll find that it gets as good as Mythos.&quot; And and I thought, well, if that's true, then why don't I just take GLM, control it entirely, soup to nuts,
[00:22:01] on my own hardware inside of the United States with only US citizens that can touch it. It just seems like the brain dead obvious thing to do, and it's much much cheaper. >> Yeah, and 100% correct. I will say if you're going to do this, you'll eventually wind up rolling your own LLM. I mentioned a company, Abacus, goabacus.co, that we seated in our accelerator. What they're doing now for HIPPA client people is they're actually
[00:22:29] giving you this go one box. They're literally saying we're going to make your own model for you. So once you start this you you start with you know claude and use their wrapper and everything or open AIS. Then you move on to the next step. The next step is I'm going to use an open source model use my own try to find a harness etc. Where you will eventually wind up is you're going to fork these models you're going to
[00:22:49] build your own. That is the end state on prem on your own hardware. Don't trust anybody because there's too much at stake. You cannot risk your entire business. You might as well be part of the vanguard and start investing here. You're going to slow down to speed up is what's going to happen. Whether you're using 8090, Abacus, or any of these other solutions or rolling your own, you must have AI sovereignty. You must have
[00:23:11] intelligent sovereignty or you're just giving your business over to your competitors. The only company, the only company at scale that's ever respected the developer community in this way is Apple. Apple took a very strategic approach to wanting to build an app store business to wanting to support developers. And they explicitly told people, if you make something super obvious that you can build in a week or
[00:23:32] two, it eventually might wind up in our basic collection of apps, the stock app in your iPhone, the notepad app in your iPhone, those apps are incredibly basic. But if you looked at, you know, Robin Hood's uh or Google Finance and then you looked at something like say Evernote back in the day, which was an advanced notetaker, it took 10 years for Notepad to add the features that Evernote had 7 8 9 10 years ago. They specifically slow
[00:23:58] their apps down to make them simple for users and not f with their ecosystem because they want to take the 30% tax. That's your choice here. There is no 30% tax here when it comes to anthropic. There is no 30% tax equivalent with open AI. >> The thing with Apple is that Apple was renting distribution. This is not renting distribution. This is where you're renting intelligence and judgment. And so the problem that a
[00:24:24] company has is you can't rent the same in this is why your point is actually right. I think it's for a different reason. You can't rent intelligence from the same place that rents it to your competitor. >> Correct. >> You just can't. You can't. It's just stupid. It >> It will overflow. it will go over the wall in your competitor's lap. >> It's it becomes the lowest common denominator problem where you and your
[00:24:45] competitors now look exactly the same. Why would you do that? And again, if you go back to that that thing that BCG identified, so many companies are already teetering on a very difficult position where they cannot generate returns on their invested equity. And so why would you then go and pay all this money so that you end up with the same answer as your competitor? >> You can't do it. It's just not a it's not a choice. and Sachs, part of what's
[00:25:10] going on here is the deflationary nature of technology. Every single one of these tools is getting cheaper. Tokens are getting cheaper, Sachs. And if you look at Nvidia's role in all of this, they have something called Neotron. You can try it if you uh use Perplexity. You can just pick the drop down menu. It has deep thinking. You will not be able to tell the difference between Jensen Wong's open-source LLM sacks and Claude
[00:25:36] for 95% of your searches. I guarantee you now why why why has Nvidia and Jensen downplayed their open- source model until this moment? Why would he do that? Why would he never bring it up in the all interview? Never bring it up because his top customers were uh very concerned from what I understand about the fact that they had made so much project progress on their open source model. But suddenly after open AI
[00:26:05] announced their jalapeno chips, after Anthropic started uh making chips, after AMD did successful uh projects with both of these companies, after Elon said he's going to do his own fab, Nvidia's taken the gloves off, David, they are going to own the whole stack. They are going to be talking about open source a whole bunch. So maybe you could talk a little bit about Nvidia and their role in this as the open-source atscale full stack
[00:26:30] provider. You get the hardware from them and you're gonna get a model that's competitive with open AIS for free and all you have to do is use one of their hosting companies, Cory, whoever is buying Nvidia's, Colossus, etc. What are your thoughts on Nvidia suddenly being willing to talk about their open source projects today? Well, look, I think part of it is they needed time to make the offering compelling and you know,
[00:26:55] they're up against some pretty great AI labs and I think some of it is just, hey, it takes time to train up these models. Now, one question is why is it that Nvidia and Palunteer are partnering? Like what makes them natural partners? And I want to just explain that. If you want to think about the AI stack for a minute at the most basic level, there's three layers to the stack. It's basically the chips, it's the models, and then it's the
[00:27:21] applications. Well, right now we have in the middle layer at the model layer of the stack, you've got two dominant companies. You've got Anthropic and Open AAI. We know that Enthropic is around 60some billion of ARR. Open AAI is at 40 something billion of ARR. As far as we know, no one else is really generating meaningful revenue at the model layer. So, we already have, let's say, an emerging duopoly situation. We have
[00:27:47] Anthropic pushing for a regulatory capture agenda that would probably enshrine that duopoly situation at a regulatory level because they're pushing for a safety agenda where Daria explicitly says that these other models are not safe. You shouldn't have access to them. So you've kind of got that situation. You got the market producing duopoly. You got the government now potentially leaning not to bust up the duopoly but maybe to enforce it. So
[00:28:12] that's sort of the emerging situation at the model layer. And so if you're an application at the top of the stack like Palunteer or you're a chip company at the bottom of the stack, that's the last thing you want. You want a competitive model layer. Why? Because if you're an application, you don't want to be beholden to one model provider, right? You want to have a choice. And if you're an enterprise, you want to have a choice
[00:28:32] because you don't want have to give up all of your proprietary knowledge. And if you're a chip company, you you don't want a monopsiny buyer situation where there's only one or two companies who can buy your chips and by the way, they're producing their own. You want to have as diverse and healthy an ecosystem as possible where there's lots of potential buyers for your chips. And if enterprises are rolling their own using
[00:28:53] open models, that's kind of an ideal situation because now there's like a long tale of buyers. So I think really the whole ecosystem in a way the chip companies, developers, applications, enterprises, everybody has an incentive for a competitive layer of the stack at the model layer. Really the only companies who don't are anthropic and open AI because obviously they want to dominate. They want to be a duopoly. And
[00:29:22] my view is, look, if you earn a monopoly or duopoly in our system, we don't ban monopolies in the United States. We ban anti-competitive tactics, but if you lawfully achieve a monopoly through amazing performance, we don't, you know, nationalize you or make you illegal, and I think that's fine. However, the government, in my view, should do nothing to make monopoly or duopoly more likely. They should make it harder for
[00:29:48] these companies to engage in monopoly tactics and they should do everything they can to keep the model layer competitive because competition is what brings out the best and it's good for the ecosystem and it ensures our civil liberties and consumer choice. So, >> and it's going to be amazing for pricing sacks if you think about what this competition is about to do and you've been very vocal about this in your time
[00:30:09] in Washington DC. We want to have a level playing field. We want to see massive competition. I'll give you your flowers and your lay. You did a great job of now setting the table for this in 2026 and 2027 going forward by letting people compete. The cost of tokens, Freeberg, is going to go down 90% a year for the next 3 years. You're going to be able to buy a thousand times as many tokens that are more intelligent because
[00:30:33] you're going to have free options. The price will be free or close to free for many of these and that could be incredibly disruptive. Yes, Dave. >> Yeah. And I think people are going to again deploy their own hardware against it. I think there's going to be a buying frenzy in the enterprise, not just with the Neoclouds and the hyperscalers. I think the the enterprise is going to be a buyer. And when that happens, you do
[00:30:57] the simple math and you don't want to have a dependency on server availability and cloud downtime and you don't want to put these models on some third party cloud and you want to do stuff that's very cheap. Like a lot of people are running I mean you guys do this. You're running day-to-day workflows for your enterprise and you realize, hey, I could run these workflows on an open source model on a machine in my office and we
[00:31:18] don't need to be sending this stuff back to some fancy scalable cloud service provider. >> Right? The industry spent so many years convincing everybody to flip to the cloud and the realization may be that all this this idea of shared infrastructure may not be the best idea in a world of intelligence >> and this is what I mean by like a distributed spoke model because I do think it's not going to be all or none.