[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world. It's your favorite podcast. It's your podcast's favorite podcast. It's the All-In podcast. Episode 279. With me, Fredberg, Sax, Chimath, you know the the squad. You know the squad. We're here. It's the summer and we're ready to rock and roll. We got a power docket. We got a rocket docket. Palunteer and Nvidia have announced a sovereign AI
[00:00:25] partnership. Where have we heard that term before? Palanteer is going to use Nvidia's Neotron. Neotron like the Pixar film open models to build a custom frontier quality model to serve the US government. Palanteer is calling this new platform sovereign AI operating system. The US government agencies will own the hardware, the data, and the model waits. Palanteer also shared a viral tweet manifesto laying out the
[00:00:53] concept, &quot;Data retention is your treasure. Transfer it at your own peril. Transferring that data hands over access to your pre-existing winning plays and yields the means of production for new ones. CEO Alex Karp went on CNBC to announce the partnership in a classic Karp Robin Williams style monologue. Here's a clip from his 20inut interview where he where he basically went after the frontier models like Anthropic. Play the
[00:01:23] clip. Our clients are just to say they're unhappy with the Frontier Labs is to say I'm welcome at the Berkeley faculty. It's like there's just a level of discomfort and loss of trust. Sam and and and Daario, there's nothing more fun than debating Daario in private. So this is I'm not throwing shade at them, but something has gone completely wrong. And the basic view among enterprises in this country is I'm going to chill lax uh and
[00:01:52] waste my time with tokens. I'm going to get no value and they're going to get my IP. When the do department of war goes to you and says I need this application, do they get to control the weights to do it or do you get to control the weights? Are we really going to outsource the battlefield of this country to the consensus view in Silicon Valley? That is effing insane. >> All right. And so some folks uh refer to
[00:02:17] this as a televised nervous breakdown. We here at Allink call that Alex Garp on a Tuesday. And we talked about this Chimath uh Sax Freedber. We talked about this a whole bunch back in February. I coined the term intelligence sovereignty here. Here's your victory fact. Do I want to give all of the secrets in our organization, every piece of intellectual property to Sam Alman who's got to make a billion dollars a
[00:02:45] year to keep up with his spend, right? He's going to build every application. I've been talking about AI sovereignty here for a bit just in terms of how much more coste effective it is and how you're not training other people's AIs with your knowledge and your insights. This is why it's super important that open-source open- source agents and local hardware be able to run these models and that consumers and companies
[00:03:08] learn how to roll their own language models. The intelligent sovereignty is different than privacy. Privacy is oh, you can't see my photos. You can't peek into my notes app and what I wrote there in my journal. Intelligent sovereignty is you can't tell me what to think. You can't use your AI to analyze my photos, to analyze my emails, to analyze my messages, and tell me how to interpret the world. That's actually going to be
[00:03:30] the next key piece here. All right. And uh Sax, you are in your long post era. Another long post this week from you on this very topic. And obviously as uh AISAR there for the first half of the Trump administration, you uh been very involved and very close to this. I would love to hear inside I'd love to hear your take on this and your long posts over 300 words. You can follow x.com/davidsax, but also like the palace intrigue here
[00:03:59] and what this means in terms of the relationship with the government, which we're going to get into in our second story. Well, look, Jay Cal, I got to give you some credit there. The first part of your take was spot on. After that, it was kind of diminishing returns. I'm not sure why we had to listen to the next 30 seconds of it, but anyway, uh, it started off really strong. But let's go back to the supposed crash out by Karp
[00:04:24] on CNBC. It was nothing of the sort. It was all these legacy media types making that claim. And that's the first clue that he's actually saying something insightful and maybe kind of brilliant. And I think the thing that he said that I hadn't really thought about in quite those terms is he started talking about AI safety in the enterprise and what that really looks like. And what he said is that what technical customers want is
[00:04:48] control over their compute, their models, their data stack and their alpha, meaning their proprietary knowledge. They want to know they own the means of production, he said, and it's not being transferred to someone else. And what he's referring to there is that these enterprises are at risk of transferring their knowledge, their knowhow, their trade secrets, their customer data to these model providers who might eventually decide to compete
[00:05:12] with them. Like you said, JCAL and you can see that enterprises are waking up to this threat and they're not happy about it. And I think KARP is exactly right about that. Now, I think this is a really interesting take on AI safety because what safety means for an enterprise is again that they get to control their own data, their model weights, their compute. So, a frontier lab can't hoover up their proprietary knowledge, their alpha and
[00:05:42] turn it into their next product. And if you don't think that can happen, just look at what happened to Figma. So according to the information, Anthropic quote unquote blindsided its then business partner with the launch of Clawude Design. So this was a new vertical app that Anthropic launched to compete in the design category. And Figma's founder said that Anthropic had not been completely honest with them. Enthropic chief product officer had
[00:06:11] actually even served on Figma's board and didn't resign until 3 days before the launch of Claude Design. So obviously Figma again felt blindsided by this and you can see the resulting impact on their stock price. Figma's stock has fallen something like 50% this year while Anthropic's valuation has surged. This is not an isolated example. Anthropic has also launched Cloud Science, Claude Security, Claude Legal,
[00:06:36] Claude Financial, and of course Claude Code. And every single one of these vertical apps expanded into categories that was previously served by companies building on top of Anthropic's own models. And really, if you want to go back to when Anthropic's revenue explosion began, it was with the launch of Claude Code. And how did they know to launch that product? Because they saw that cursor was doing extremely well.
[00:07:03] Curser was one of their biggest customers. They created the coding assistant first. they created that category and anthropic said oh like why don't we vertically integrate so in other words they're watching where the value is being created on top of their models then they're moving in directly and this is a formula that I think is very Microsoft like you could say it's very Google like they want to dominate the model layer you could call that the
[00:07:26] operating system and then use that position that monopolistic position to capture the most lucrative verticals so if you want to think about like the Microsoft example they had the Windows monopoly and then systematically they went and dominated every lucrative category of business software. It started with spreadsheets and word processing and then eventually it went to the browser so forth and so on. If you want to look at Google, they
[00:07:51] basically had a monopoly or dominant position in search. And if you go back to the early days of Google, the search results picked you off site. And in fact, they really pride themselves on how quickly they could send you off site. But gradually over time, they use that traffic to tell themselves where to build properties. And today, fewer than half of searches kick you off site. You stay on Google properties. And I think
[00:08:15] something similar is happening with Anthropic here. the pattern is clear, they are going to use their dominant position in the model to then grab more and more territory in any interesting and lucrative vertical. So again, back to Alex Karp's point, if you're an enterprise customer or a developer, why in the world would you ever want to share any proprietary data with them? You are mortgaging your future. You are
[00:08:37] sealing your fate. You are going to lead to disaster for your company. Just one last point then I'll turn over JCL is that Daario at the same time that they pursue this business strategy has been arguing that open- source models are dangerous and need to be restricted. Well, dangerous to whom? Not to enterprises that want to retain control over their data. >> It's dangerous to his business model because his business model requires
[00:09:02] >> that customers don't have a lot of choice at the model layer. And what Karp is pointing out here is that if you want to have true AI safety as an enterprise, you have to retain the ability to choose at the model layer who gets to see and use your alpha. >> Yeah, this is well said. I think you you picked that carcass to the bone a bit, but Chimath, you're actually doing specific examples of this uh at 8090.
[00:09:30] You've been testing uh some of the open source models. I saw you share that on Twitter X. So maybe you could give us a little feedback on what you've learned as uh the CEO of 8090 and you know your firsthand experience now with using open source for the first time in the last couple weeks for this specific use case in enterprises. When you start a company I mean you guys all know this you're not starting it for the moment
[00:09:53] that exists today. you're almost sort of trying to forecast if such and such a set of things happen then here is the scene that that gets created because it takes time to build something and it takes time to get enough reps to know what you're doing in your go to market. This for me was the moment that I thought would arrive which is the point where everybody wakes up and realizes wait hold on a second two things are
[00:10:18] true. The first is that my business is complicated. I want AI to be able to accelerate it, but I want to be able to protect myself in doing so. And then the second is I want the flexibility where there's an independent third party control plane that I use to get all these benefits so that I don't leak and seed my advantages away. And I think Alex is an incredible, smart, brilliant guy and he completely nailed it. And I think he called out on
[00:10:47] its face the huge risk of this. So let me just give you this narrative in three tweets. The first one is I read this really interesting study from BCG and what they looked at was the return on capital employed or ROCE of various businesses. And this is what's incredible. The cost of capital has now with long-term rates moved back to what its long run average is which is around 8 to 11%. What that means is like that is the actual cost
[00:11:20] that you would borrow money at effectively. The problem is that half of large US companies now cannot deliver returns that exceed that. That is a really big problem. And then second there's a further problem which is that persistently low returns. So in the you know 1 2 3 4 5% is about one in seven companies all around the world. Okay. So why is this important to note? It means that being in business is complicated.
[00:11:45] It's hard. Not everything works all the time. There's a bunch of underperforming businesses. There's a bunch of underperforming segments. So in that lens, when you, you know, think about what Sax said, which is you have this company that comes to you and says, I have a magic box and all you have to do is tell me everything you're doing, and this magic box will make everything better. But then all of a sudden, from
[00:12:09] the shadows, the magic box says, you know what, I've decided to compete with you. That is a huge risk. And now that you've seen enough examples of it, I think you have to figure out a different way to do it. So then you go to the next tweet that I saw, which I thought was interesting. And this is a woman who's an ex meta PM. And what she essentially says is like, hey, hold on a second. There is this assumption that you can't
[00:12:31] use an open- source model because it's all Chinese. And what she says was, well, even if it's 100x cheaper, and their response is, no, because we care about safety and security. And her perspective is, don't you understand that you can actually host open- source models with your own GPUs in US data centers that doesn't share any data back to anybody? And instead, what you're accidentally or purposefully doing is giving away all
[00:12:56] your data to a couple of frontier labs rather than owning it privately yourself. And 100x, it turns out, is a really big number to pay to do all of that by accident. And that's what Alex Karp is saying. He's like, why would anybody do this when there are alternatives? And so the third post that I'll talk about is something that we did. So we took our software factory which is an agnostic third party control plane and we just
[00:13:25] wanted to see and we ran it on a very typical enterprise task which is you have an old piece of code you want to migrate it and you want to maintain it in a new framework so that it's easier and more flexible. pretty straightforward task. And so we ran it and we ran an experiment where we did Claude by itself, then we did us plus Claude, and then we ran it on the best frontier open-source model and then us plus that model. And the data is crazy.
[00:13:56] So when you use our harness with Claude, it was simultaneously 1.4x 4x cheaper and 1.5x faster than just using anthropic opus 48 alone. But if you wrap the open source model with our software factory, it was 16.4x cheaper. Now it was three times slower. But you know, you're talking about a couple of extra hours to save 16.4x >> on that one. The slowness Chimath, is that slowness because of the hardware being served up by Claude or is it
[00:14:29] >> This is all using open router. know this was all using open rudder on a very traditional hardware stack. So >> look I think the reality is could that be optimized even further? Absolutely. But my my point is if you take Sax's points and then if you take Alex Karp's point and just this actual data there is a very legitimate question which is if you are a reasonable company why are you not finding an independent
[00:14:53] way to access this intelligence in a way that doesn't leak your edge away to do so at this point now is kind of becoming derelict and irresponsible. Back then you could be experimenting because you didn't know any better. But now when you know all of these data points to continue to make the same decision I think is really insanely dumb. All right Dave Friedberg you are also a CEO of the surging oh and you have a lot of
[00:15:19] proprietary data. Let me ask you point blank. Do you trust your data to the frontier model companies or are you doing what there seems to be consensus here protecting your data protecting the crown jewels so to speak and using open source are you experimenting with it and just yes or no do you trust the frontier models with Ohio's data so I'll tell you there's been an effort by anthropic to go around and sign up life sciences
[00:15:47] companies to contributing to a new life sciences focused model that effort has been they're approaching these large companies with large proprietary data sets and saying hey if you share your data we will give you early access some sort of proprietary value sign this NDA and you can participate with us and I think nearly everyone I've spoken with has woken up to the fact that they are basically trying to commoditize
[00:16:13] everyone's business because fundamentally if all of the tens of billions of dollars you as a life sciences company have invested in experiments and product development and you've generated all of this proprietary data along the way. That data is a true asset of your organization. It's an asset that you've spent billions of dollars developing. And by handing it over to a model company to then combine with other
[00:16:38] people's data, you are effectively commoditizing the asset that you have, the one kind of core differentiation that you have. And so everyone is largely saying no. The way I see this evolving is very much in line with what Alex Karp suggested on CNBC. If you go back a couple of years, I think we all assumed there was going to be this large hub, large spoke model for AI model development and deployment. Meaning
[00:17:03] there would be these very large clusters. These large clusters would be ultimately capital advantaged. So those who had the most capital, which is why everyone's raised tens and hundreds of billions of dollars, would be able to train models. And then there would be these large spokes, these large clusters for deploying those models with inference. So everyone's using the NeoClouds and the hyperscalers and whatnot to run models. And then maybe