[00:55:56] me to argument number two, which is if you were to do something like ban open source in the United States, you'll put the United States on an island. The rest of the world is not going to follow suit. The rest of the world wants to use open models because of the advantages they offer. They're cheaper. They're more customizable. They offer more control. And again, they stop being Chinese models once you can take them
[00:56:19] and adapt them and run them on your own hardware. So the rest of the world's not going to stop using these models just because we do. And what we will do then is subject American enterprises to a token tax. You're going to end up paying for closed models in the US. >> No, but we have open source models now. Nvidia has theirs, for example. There are other ones. So if there are open source models here that are equally
[00:56:42] competitive, >> would you then support an import control so that more people in America put their effort into American open source models? Well, I've been I've one of the things I've been saying for >> and Google's open source models. Obviously, >> one of the things I've been saying for over a year is that we need more strong offerings in open source from the United States. So, I hope we win the open category of models just like I do the
[00:57:05] closed. I mean, I hope America wins the AI race in both open and closed models. I don't really want anyone being forced to use models they don't want. But look, if American models, open models are better than Chinese open models, they will win and people will want to adopt them. So if what you're saying is true that our open models are better or getting better or going to surpass the Chinese ones, leave that to the market
[00:57:27] to decide. And just one last point on this is, you know, I'm not against limiting the import of certain Chinese products in the US. For example, I don't think we allow Chinese connected cars. >> We don't >> I think we should think twice about whether we allow, you know, Chinese robots into the US. I mean, >> yeah, we wouldn't want to have like a like a fifth column of, >> you know, of backdoor Chinese robots or
[00:57:50] something in the US potentially. I'm just brainstorming here. Okay. So, I'm not against limiting certain things, but we should understand that when we do that, we are inviting retaliation by them as well and we are in a trade relationship with them. We still need things from them. We still need rare earths, things like that. One day we won't hopefully. I do think we should try to be as independent and autonomous
[00:58:11] as possible, but while we do, we have to think very carefully about the larger trade relationship. Yeah, Trump banned the import of Chinese drones. It's a signature part of the legislation. So, um, all right. So, a little housekeeping here. All-in summit is coming back September 13th, 14th and 15th. Fifth year of the summit. Keep raising the bar. Man, if you knew the speakers that I knew that Freeberg's lined up, your
[00:58:35] brain would explode this year. The nights are as good as the days because let's face it, Freeberg likes to party. He's been known to have a cocktail or two. We're doing the biggest poker tournament we've ever done at the summit this year. Gaming will happen at the welcome party and we're going to have a full casino night at an exclusive mansion in LA. Ooh la la. Applications open now. Allin.com. Don't miss our
[00:58:57] biggest event of the year. I think we have 12 trillion in market cap books so far. It's probably going to double. Okay, next topic. Topic number three. It's a hot scot this summer. The justices released 11 decisions in the final few days of the term. Let's discuss the top three right now. Birthright citizenship case was Trump versus Barbara. On the first day of his second term, Trump, as you know, signed an EO ending automatic citizenship for
[00:59:23] children born to illegal immigrants or those on temporary visas. Uh this is codified, I guess, in the 14th amendment. Court struck it down 63, maybe 54. There's some nuance here. 255,000 children are born every year to non-citizen parents. Chief Justice Roberts wrote, &quot;The majority, joined by all three liberal members.&quot; The court is still a bit uh polarized citizenship then and now was the right to have
[00:59:47] rights. We keep that promise today according to Chief Justice's majority. Kavanaaugh carved out a lane for Congress to tighten up on birthright citizenship. That's still consistent with the 14th Amendment. Uh, as you know, the administration has been pointing out, and you've watched Fox News, you've heard this a million times. If you watch CNN and Not All In, you're going to maybe have heard of this once or twice. Birth tourism. A Chinese
[01:00:10] national, Dong Wan Lee, plead guilty in 2019 to a scheme to help pregnant Chinese women enter the US under false pretenses so their babies would be granted US citizenship. She pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud and one count of visa fraud. So we we handled that through the legal system. She served 10 months in prison. Trump's response to the loss. Quote, &quot;Congress should start today to
[01:00:35] work on ending birthright citizenship. They will have my complete and total support for Trump. Feels like a loss for Trump objectively, but he's going to keep fighting this one.&quot; Close decision. Uh if you ask Steven Miller, he doesn't like immigrants like you three dudes. But I would let all three of you in. Again, >> that's not his position. >> Okay. Well, you can explain. I know he doesn't like immigrants.
[01:00:58] >> We're legal immigrants. We're legal immigrants. >> Yes. Well, but >> you understand the difference, right? >> Well, birthright would also be legal according to the Constitution. >> Yeah. But that's the whole point is it doesn't really make sense that let's say an illegal immigrant runs across the border, is like 9 months pregnant, plops out a baby, and all of a sudden they're an American citizen. How does that make
[01:01:18] sense? Uh, what about somebody who's been here for 20 years, Sachs, worked really hard, they're illegal, and they have a baby. Should the baby kicked out and that baby not be a citizen? You're, let's say it's somebody's nanny, somebody's gardener. We have 20 million, 30 million illegal immigrants we've let into this country. We wave them in across many different Republican and Democratic terms over the last 30 years.
[01:01:39] What do you say to that person who has a baby? Should they be deported? Should they be given citizenship? >> Well, look, the question here is what the Constitution says. And my view is that the original purpose and understanding of the 14th amendment was to make sure that the children of freed slaves would have citizenship rights. That was the purpose of it. That it's obvious. And I don't think it speaks to the situations you're talking about and
[01:02:01] Congress should just make the law about those situations. But now Congress cannot make the law because the Supreme Court has ruled that citizenship is determined by birthright. So in that case, My question was somebody who's been here 20 years as an illegal immigrant underrange. >> I'm saying Congress should >> What do you think? I'm asking you your personal opinion. Should they get >> I mean, look, that's you're talking
[01:02:25] about an edge case. It's complicated. But the point is that we all know why the 14th Amendment was ratified. It was to protect freed slaves, obviously. And now we're in territory that's like very different. But the Supreme Court has decided that if you're born here for any reason whatsoever, even if you're an illegal, even if you weren't supposed to be in the country, now your children are American citizens. By the way, I don't
[01:02:48] think any country in the world has this policy. It's kind of a crazy policy. So, I agree with Stephen Miller about this. >> I'm not sure it's an edge case. I think I think the majority case is people who've been here illegally for for decades. And I think the edge case, the one you proposed is the edge case, like a pregnant woman running across the border. >> Let Congress decide that. I don't think the Constitution ever spoke to this.
[01:03:07] What's your personal opinion on this, Shimat? Should the person who's been here for 10, 20 years, paid their taxes, but they're illegal, and they have a child, should that child be a citizen or not? What's Shmat's personal opinion here? >> I haven't thought about this. >> Great. Okay. It's uh I mean, that's the key to the uh I think what we're talking about here. Free. >> No, no, no, no. Because J, there's a big
[01:03:27] difference between making something constitutional and then doing it via a law of Congress. And what Supreme Court has said here is that Congress does not get to make the decision. The majority of the American people don't get to make the decision. The Constitution requires a certain point of view and there's no way to change that without a constitutional amendment, which will never happen. So, we're kind of now
[01:03:49] stuck with this position. Hm. Well, if you read the language and someone posted this, this was the debate that when the 14th amendment was being debated, Senator Jacob Howard, I'll give credit to Guyer Capital for pointing this out. There's a transcript of the debate that took place and it says um every person born within the limits of the United States and subject to their jurisdiction is by virtue of natural law, national
[01:04:13] law a citizen of the United States. This will not of course include persons born in the United States who are foreigners, aliens who belong to the families of ambassadors or foreign ministers accredited to the government of the United States, but will include every other class of persons. Because if you go to the history in 1868, there was this Dread Scott decision which denied citizenship to the children of slaves.
[01:04:39] And the intention at the time was to ensure citizenship for newly freed slaves and their descendants. That was the original intention of the 14th amendment at the time. So this goes back to the great debate that happens at the Supreme Court all the time, which is the textual or the intentional reading of the Constitution or its amendments. The textual reading is you look strictly at the words, the plain literal meaning of
[01:05:03] those words. And then the intentional reading is what was intended at the time by the framers of the constitution or the amendment that may be the subject of the debate. And so I think that's ultimately what this comes down to. If you think about the intention at the time, it was really built around free slaves. There wasn't a consideration at that time of having this massive movement of immigration that was taking
[01:05:26] place or that has taken place since. that wasn't even in the kind of realm of consciousness or consideration when this amendment was being passed. So the intentionalism kind of argument would be hey wait a second you know this wasn't really what they intended but the textual representation is what it is and that's what the ruling kind of led to in this particular case. my personal opinion, if you're asking it,
[01:05:48] >> I'm trying to get personal opinions here. >> I do think birthright citizenship um should be endowed to the children of uh legal residents of the United States, whether they're a citizen or not. So, yeah, I think that's critical. So, if you're a visitor, if you get on an airplane and fly here for a weekend on a vacation and you have a visa or you have, >> you know, temporary visitor status to come. >> Yeah. or or you have a temporary visitor
[01:06:14] status to come to the United States to visit, you are not a resident of the United States. So, your children should not become citizens of the United States unless you're a resident. And remember, we don't just have like citizens and non-citizens. We also have resident status in this country. And a resident status is a green card. I mean, for years, I was on a green card. Three of us were immigrants. We all went through
[01:06:33] this process. Once you get resident status, you're now a permanent resident of the United States. You haven't been given citizenship rights yet. But if you have a child, I think it's reasonable for your child to have citizenship rights if you're a legal resident rather than a legal visitor or illegal visitor to the United States. That would be my personal assessment. I you know, it would be great for that to be the law,
[01:06:54] but obviously this is now kind of, >> you know, gone explain that really well. I didn't even know all of this. I'm I'm on your side. I agree. >> Yeah. I mean, I I agree with that. You're saying in addition, people shouldn't be able to do the tourism thing. We should handle that. Um, I do think we should have an exception here for people who have been noncriminals who are here illegally because we as America, Republicans
[01:07:18] especially, uh, during the time when they were pro free trade, NAFTA and really waved in a large percentage of the immigrants who here, obviously Biden did that as well. I think we have a moral obligation to those people since we waved them in and we waved them in to work at our businesses because we wanted to pay under minimum wage to them. those people suffered here in our country to take those jobs to make us richer, to
[01:07:41] make our country richer. We have a moral and ethical obligation to them and to their children. We should give them a path to citizenship unless they're criminals and their children should be Americans. Since they came here to live the American dream, whether it was illegal or not, we waved them in. That was our mistake. And now that we've closed the border, we should make amends to those 20 million people. That's my
[01:08:03] personal opinion. I don't think we have need more time to think about it and Saxur. >> Well, my my point is we're all just making arguments about what the law should be and these are the kinds of arguments that Congress should be making and deliberating over >> and these are the edge cases. These are the nuances that should be handled in a citizenship law. And what the Supreme Court has done here is remove that space
[01:08:28] for Congress to legislate. And I think Congress needs that space because there are these edge cases and instead it's interpreted the 14th amendment in a way that I don't think is consistent with why it was ratified in the first place. And Freeberg is totally right about about Dread Scott which was one of the most awful probably the most awful Supreme Court ruling of all time. It came out in 1857 and it ruled that black people whether
[01:08:56] enslaved or free were not US citizens and therefore they had no right to sue in federal courts. And the chief justice Roger Tony wrote the decision I mean it's extremely racist. He wrote that black people had quote no rights which the white man was bound to respect. And that decision furthermore ruled that Congress could not ban slavery in the new western territories which meant that it struck down the Missouri compromise
[01:09:21] which was the law that had kept the peace between the free and slave states for decades. And that is one of the direct things that then triggered the civil war 3 years later. So it was this historically bad decision that I guess then the 14th amendment tried to correct by saying that no you know freed slaves and their children would be >> totally different context than someone visiting from China for the weekend and
[01:09:45] having a baby. >> Yeah, which we obviously that one is an easy one to adjudicate. Chimath, I'm curious feels like as a society we have now because of the closure of the border give Trump a lot of credit for that. It was easily done, which means it could have been done at any time by Biden. And that created a big rift in our society that we're still working through. The other rift that was created over the past year, we've had many debates here
[01:10:06] about ICE and what some people, including myself, believe was a brutal way to deport people and a cruel way to deport people. Some people might disagree with my opinion, but it seems like Trump stood down on that and calmed it down, I think, because it was so unpopular, at least according to the metrics that we saw from Pew and other uh studies. What do you think the road the the the path forward is now? The ICE
[01:10:30] um aggressiveness has stopped. The border has been shut. We seem to be in a sort of holding pattern here which I think was very wise by Trump to do that. Put us like calm the situation down. I would have liked to seen him calm it down a little earlier. What do you think the go forward should be? If we go look at 27, 28, 29, do you think obviously we all want legal immigration, but what do you think we should be aspiring to do as
[01:10:54] a country now that the issue has seemingly is not boiling over? What are your what are your thoughts? Jamaal, have you given it any thought? >> I think that Western countries are losing their cultural representation that makes them unique and I think that that's very bad. When my parents went to Canada and then stayed, I think part of what they were doing, whether they knew it or not, was making an explicit decision to be Canadian first,
[01:11:22] which who happened to be of Sri Lankan origin. When I came to the United States, I was making an explicit decision to become an American and then my Canadian and then my Sri Lankan ancestry was second and third respectively. I think if you seed your immigration, you're seeding your culture. And I think that people have a responsibility to keep the values of what made that country unique in the first place. And