[00:15:04] more of some of the US companies working together. And I'll say this because ARM is not a US company, but we I would do the same if I would working together uh pool pulling capital for some of these initiatives to essentially get some type of grounding. You need universities uh but you need corporations to get behind this as well as well as uh financing private equity all kinds of different capital because this is a this is a huge
[00:15:29] capital investment that also requires investment from companies and and and private equity but at the same time needs to last for years. No text Just talking about the fabs TSMC's built this facility in Arizona. There was reports about the inability to get labor to train labor to get a workforce that I don't know what the right term to use is culturally the workforce would operate the same way as they do back in Taiwan
[00:15:53] and they were really challenged and they had to bring folks over to Arizona to work the facility. These were news reports so I I we don't know this firsthand. Do you think we have the capacity to do fabs in in the United States on uh on shore here? And what's it going to take if you were in the administration? Let's say you were the AISAR for example. What would you advise the president to do to ensure that that
[00:16:14] happens successfully? Yeah, I don't want I don't want to take anything away from David. He's doing an amazing job as the AISAR. You've hit a very key tenant though relative to uh worldclass manufacturing inside the United States and what is required to uh to make that happen. We had it decades ago, believe it or not. There was there was a time where the leading contract manufacturers uh in the world were US-based companies
[00:16:40] uh and uh and we knew how to do that. And if you go back 30 years ago when Apple and Compact used to build their own PCs and they had their own factories, believe it or not, then all of that went to companies like Flextronics and SCI etc etc. So we had that uh ultimately for cost reasons that began to move all the way to uh to the Far East into Foxcon in China etc etc. There's a great book uh Apple in China that documents a lot of this to your
[00:17:10] point in terms of you know could we get that back in some ways there's no reason why we why we couldn't but it is a mindset TSMC is a 24/7 operation where if a line goes down or a customer's got a problem not only are the technicians need to be ready to go the engineers to be need to be ready to go and that is something that uh I think we've lost the muscle memory inside the United States quite frankly on how to go do that. I
[00:17:36] mean, we may have had it a generation or so ago. I don't know that we have it now. And we certainly haven't trained a generation of folks to look at manufacturing jobs as being something that is as lucrative and prestigious. They're sort of thinking, "Oh, it's a blue collar job. I don't want to go into that way." It's not viewed that way uh in Taiwan, right? And in Taiwan, if you say you're working for TSMC or studying
[00:17:55] to go off and do that, it's a highly prestigious kind of thing. So, it's it's not just the AISAR's uh problem. I think it's uh it's deeper than that in terms of us getting so you've diagnosed the problem. Do you have a solution or recommendation? Is there a short form that you could highlight? I I you know I think we've seen a huge amount of work already done by universities. I was at Carnegie Melon uh a couple weeks ago. They now have micro
[00:18:17] electronics classes for chip design. That was gone a number of years ago. There weren't even people designing chips. So I think getting manufacturing operations excellence uh into the universities making that a field of of discipline uh that the universities get behind to build up that capacity in the US. I think that's required. Let me go No text back to export controls which Jamath mentioned. And I'm not sure people here
[00:18:39] know exactly how these things work, but basically if a product like a advanced semiconductor is put on the export control list, it means that the company that's selling it or the buyer, they have to apply for a license from the commerce department to get their purchase order fulfilled. And the the commerce department will then, you know, process that license request and it goes through some inter agency committee and
[00:19:01] five different departments will basically have to sign off on it. And best case scenario, it takes months, but there are license applications that literally have been in the hopper for 2 years, by which time the chip is obsolete. And believe it or not, there are a lot of people on groups in Washington right now who are calling for literally every sale of a advanced semiconductor worldwide to be a licensed sale uh because they think that GPUs are
[00:19:25] like plutonium or something and they're inherently scary. I mean, this is seriously the the the discourse that's going on right now. And in fact, there was um there's a major uh rule that was put forward called the Biden diffusion rule in the last 5 days of the Biden administration that basically did require every sale of a GPU worldwide to be licensed subject to some carveouts. Uh we we rescended that, but there is a
[00:19:47] neverending clamor and pressure in Washington to bring back these sorts of of rules. And the irony is that the people who are advocating for these things called themselves China hawks. But it seems to me that the whole basis of the semiconductor industry, the reason why it's moved so fast, why you get new chips every year is it's really been left alone by the government for the most part and hasn't it hasn't been
[00:20:10] a highly regulated industry. And I'm curious, what do you think will happen to the industry and the pace of innovation if the government now makes it heavily regulated in the way that I'm describing? You you brought up a great point and I think I think we may even have a couple of those in the queue that hasn't been approved for for a couple of years. You're right. Semiconductors have not been regulated traditionally. And
[00:20:31] because of that, if you look at the real heart of what drives uh semiconductor growth, compute, whether it's Intel, whether it's ARM, whether it's Nvidia, that's the West. And why is that the West? Because that requires both innovation at the chip level and a global software ecosystem. And the world works really well when it's flat and there isn't constraints relative to who you sell to or how ecosystems get built.
[00:20:57] If you shut off supply of a computing architecture into other parts of the world, what what will happen? Certain parts of the world that have the capabilities either in terms of people, technology, uh innovation, they will find a way and they will find a way around around the problem. And once that happens, you've now created two parallel universes. And then the US and the West would be at risk of that other ecosystem being an
[00:21:24] ecosystem of choice. So if you can navigate for those licenses being expedited, uh the the world works really well in semis when it's flat and a global ecosystem. Uh may the best company win. Renee, the company started in Cambridge and uh originally all the employees were there, but now it's sort of, you know, I think 50% of the employees are in the UK. Um, tell us about building a company there and just multiculturally and where
[00:21:53] you're going based on sort of, you know, where technology is going. company was started in uh in the UK in Cambridge uh in a barn uh part of a joint venture for uh the Apple Newton uh building a processor combination of a joint venture of Apple and BLSI technology. They needed a lowcost chip that could run off a battery. They contracted a company to build the chip. The chip wasn't so good, but a bunch of guys said, "You know
[00:22:18] what? The design's pretty good and why don't we try to build a business from it?" And that that's how ARM uh ARM was born. I'm the fourth CEO. Um, I'm the first one that is not from the UK. Uh, and I'm what I've been trying to do in the in the three and a half years that I took over is to keep the great scientists and technology innovation that we have in Cambridge, but inject a bit of a a Silicon Valley uh aggressiveness and and twist to uh to
[00:22:44] moving faster and going quicker. Uh now as you said half the employees are in the UK but we've got folks globally 2,000 people in Bangalore uh probably over over a thousand in the United States different parts of Europe. So it's a highly global company and we go where the talent is and we look for great engineers. Are you able to find great STEM talent still here or do you need now more investment in core double E and chip
[00:23:07] design? We need far more investment. Uh our business is not one yet where I can say I'm hiring less people because of AI. I'm certainly hiring less finance people and legal people. Sorry Jason and Spencer if you're in the audience. But for engineers, uh, AI for development, AI for creation, AI for science, that's still a hard problem to solve. Uh, which is why we need more engineers to develop chips, which is great. I think back to
[00:23:33] is there more demand for compute? Is this AI wave that we're seeing going to continue in the world of generating AI for science and creation? I think No text there's a ways to go. Leveling up for a second and looking at our relationship with China and to get a little geopolitical here, how do you view China versus America? Is this going to be a winner take all with AI? Or can these two, you know, powers get along?
[00:24:00] Are we competitors? Are we collaborators? Are we destined to fight uh and go to war in Taiwan like we talked about last year on this stage? What's your take on it? And is there a path to us having a great collaboration with China? I'm going to be an optimist here, Jason, and say I think yes. Uh I think uh that that China views some of the things around AI in terms of whether there are these are things like guard rails or
[00:24:26] policies or things to keep things in such a way that we've got the right level of safety checks. I think their their their minds are in the right space. And I say this just based upon conversations I've had with folks over there. I wouldn't necessarily compare it to the nuclear arms race, but in some ways it's not dissimilar in the sense that you need the the the countries that have the capabilities to be willing to
[00:24:47] sit at the table to have the conversations and China in my experience has shown that so far. Ladies and gentlemen, Renee Hos. Thank you. [Applause] Thanks, Rene. [Music] Thank you so much.