[00:00:00] No text There's a company nearly every chipmaker relies on that doesn't actually make anything tangible. Yet, its Blockbuster IPO in September valued it above 54 billion. It's the largest public offering in over 2 years. The valuation of the company has tripled. If you have a smartphone in your pocket or in front of you, you have an ARM circuit somewhere inside of it. We are the CPU, the heart of everything. They're the winner of the CPU side. the
[00:00:26] foundation models, the software, it's moving far faster than the hardware. So, what we're seeing is people investing faster and faster into new hardware, which ends up being a good thing for us. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome ARM CEO Renee Hos. [Applause] [Music] Thank you so much. How are you? Welcome. Welcome, David. Hey, good to see you. Hi. Hello, Renee. What are you banging these days? 3 milligrams of AL pouches or you're up
[00:01:00] to nine. I know you're competing with Nvidia, so you probably want to go with the nine, right? I will go with the nine with Jensen. You have to go big. You have to go big with Jensen. What's No text that like to compete against Nvidia? Well, I will say uh Nvidia is a customer of ours. So, I'm not going to say Jensen is my competitor uh today, but you know, I worked for Nvidia for for many many years as as you know. uh and he's
[00:01:25] fantastic right and uh learned so much working there working for him working with him and then Nvidia you know almost acquired ARM in 2020 uh so I almost you know had a chance to work with him again what did you learn from Jensen you know one of the things about Jensen that is amazing I think it's also true for people like uh Michael Dell uh Masa you have these entrepreneurs who started their companies uh 30 years ago 40 years
[00:01:53] ago go and and they're still running it. So, you have this amazing set of characteristics of vision, speed, fearlessness, taking risk, and a an ability to pivot uh very very fast. And and I saw that a lot at NVIDIA. You know, when I was there, we were only about $4 billion in sales. And uh and at that time, we were looking at lots of different ways to grow business models and such. And I just remember being, you
[00:02:21] know, one story we were at a a strategic offsite and it was supposed to be a review of road maps where we were looking at each one of the general managers going through what they uh projected in their business and what was intended to be a roadmap review turned into we're changing the strategy. We're abolishing this product line. We're going to move 2,000 engineers off of project X onto project Y. And by the
[00:02:44] way, we were only about 6,000 people at the time. What was project X? What was project Y? So we were involved uh at that time in trying to do uh mobile chipsets connecting to an Intel processor, right? And back in the day uh for those who remember PC architecture doing these chipsets competing with Intel was was really hard business and Intel was making it very very hard to compete uh relative to the integration that they
[00:03:07] did. And in fact that was the genesis of starting to pivot to ARM in a very big way inside Nvidia because at that time Jensen looked at what was going on with SOC's and ARMbased architecture and moved everybody onto the program. No text Let's maybe take a step back and level set for the audience. So just to give some background um Masayoshi Sun and Soft Bank took ARM private took private yeah for $32 billion.
[00:03:30] $32 billion and then tried to sell it famously. Yes. Couldn't find a bidder. Could not find a bidder. Hung on to it. took it public. It's now a $150 billion market cap company. That's right. And you were telling us backstage he famously, you know, refuses to sell a share. So, it's like a slow kind of process of just building the the shareholder base, but you've done phenomenally well as a business. Just set the landscape for people that
[00:03:56] want to understand Nvidia, the most valuable company in the world, but it's a it's a window to understanding AI. Mhm. Why does what do they make that's so powerful? And why aren't there other competitive solutions at at that level of scale yet? And how do you think that changes over the next 5 10 years? Oh boy. Uh lot lot a lot there to uh to describe. So the the way to think about Nvidia uh and to some extent I I don't
[00:04:24] even though I'm the CEO of ARM I don't want to tie it necessarily back to ARM but in our world what really drives demand is compute workloads. you know at the end of the day is compute workloads and when a new workload is uh essentially either identified and or invented then it comes down to what is the best architecture processor-wise to address that workload. So let's look at AI. You know the lightning bolt moment
[00:04:48] of of Alex Net uh and the work actually that the Demison team were working on. AI particularly training uh is a very very complex parallel problem that is well suited for a GPU and in fact the very first work done by the engineers on AlexNet was not with Blackwell. It was not with a an AI processor but it was with a gaming GPU a gaming card. So Nvidia was in a a very very good place to seize that moment relative to the
[00:05:18] deepmind moment slalexnet slash the transformer/training and fast forward training these complex AI models as Dennis was just talking about this is a huge huge amount of work now what role does ARM play there every one of these workloads requires a CPU to not only run the computer but help the accelerator run and that's where Nvidia is a customer today their most advanced chip called Grace Blackwell is 72 ARM
[00:05:45] CPUs with a Blackwell architecture and that's that's where Nvidia plays today. So back to uh where does Nvidia fit? There is competition. You know Demis talked about uh prior with Google they do their own chip called TPUs. Uh obviously Nvidia is the leader with general purpose but right now we're in this interesting world where people are looking at is it a general purpose chip is it a custom chip etc etc. It's a
[00:06:11] fascinating time to be in this industry for sure. Where do you think companies like Tesla, you know, Tesla recently merged two pads and now they're working on AI5 and AI6? Um, and some of the more emerging companies like Cerebras and there's a whole slew of companies now, Grock and others that have raised enormous amounts of money. Um, do you believe that the the role of ARM should be to be the lack of a better phrase,
[00:06:36] the arms dealer to all of those folks that need that capability or at some point do you think that you know you see enough of it where you're like gosh I could just do this better? Maybe a little bit of both. Uh, I mean today the role we play is we are now increasingly that microprocessor that connects to these accelerators whether it's something that's done by Cerebras or it's something that's done by Nvidia.
[00:07:00] uh something done by uh by Google, they're connected. Uh could we do something ourselves custom? It's possible. Could we also supply the intellectual property to somebody building a custom chip? We're doing that today. So to some extent um we're in a very unique place that not only can we provide the solution whether it's standard or custom but as AI moves from gigawatt data centers to running in these headsets or running in a wearable
[00:07:27] or running in something that needs to be energy efficient you still need to run the compute workload but now you need to run the run the AI workload and that is a place that I think only ARM is uniquely positioned to address. So you're going to make chips and compete with Nvidia. Uh, I'm not going to say that today, but could we do that? I hinted in the last conference call that we're looking at going a little bit
[00:07:47] further than we do today. Could we see in the, you know, next few years, could we see a divergence in the market between training and and inference? Because what I've noticed is that you've got XAI and OpenAI and, you know, Google's already doing it with TPUs. They're they're building their own chips for inference, which might be, I don't know, 99% of the workloads. They seem to acknowledge that Nvidia is the
[00:08:11] best at training and they don't seem they haven't at least announced an effort to challenge Nvidia for for training. So is there is there a possibility that you know the the market could sort of bifurcate into training chips and inference chips and inference gets much more competitive? Yes. I and I also think you have a third bucket where training distills down to simpler training chips that you don't need to
[00:08:35] run a trillion parameter model. You could have a giant model that now treats and teaches smaller models, mixture experts, 20 billion parameters that can be a mix of inference and training doing reinforcement learning where the chip is now helping uh learn trained areas. It's almost like the professor teaching a student who can also be a student teacher, right? Who can do a little bit of both. Uh and then there's inference
[00:09:00] that over time will be very dedicated and particularly as you get to uh end points that you can't have a GPU that you know runs at at a kilowatt of power you just it's impossible right so if you have robots in the field we have 500 million robots what is the chip market going to look like for robotics how what makes it different than what we have today on the embedded side versus the data center side for AI in
[00:09:24] yeah physical AI is going to be a gigantic market I mean today quite candidly bigger than data centers. Uh yeah, I think so. Uh and because I think they're going to today they largely use repurposed automotive chips, right? Things that have functional safety uh compliance around ADAS, but they're not specific for actuators or specific for smaller parts of the joint. So physical AI, particularly AI that can learn, uh is I think going to be a giant
[00:09:52] market because the robots themselves will have tens of chips, hundreds of chips. So yeah, from a unit standpoint, it could be huge. Uh the numbers are going to be well beyond what we what we No text see today. You started the business or ARM started really making reference designs and then working with partners. Does that give you a different perspective on things like export controls and export restrictions and the role that China
[00:10:16] plays in this ecosystem than say a different kind of vendor who would actually be you know originating trying to tape out themselves and trying to sell through to some extent? uh although we don't build anything right our business model is we do the design someone else has the chip built mostly at TSMC some at Samsung even Intel uh but because we are early in the value chain relative to the software ecosystem in other words we
[00:10:42] probably see what people are doing earlier than anybody else because ultimately we're the link between the hardware and the software so on export control yes to some extent we have a very big lens into it now today The China ecosystem actually follows the global ecosystem uh which which is good uh from the standpoint that every mobile phone in China it doesn't run Google Android but it runs a version of Android
[00:11:06] and it leverages this the app ecosystem that comes off of Android. Same thing with autonomous vehicles. They leverage the the ADAS stack that was created by uh by ARM and then Qualcomm and Nvidia. So right now the China ecosystem on software looks a lot like uh like the west which for us is obviously great. Uh and we have a very you know market opinion in terms of where we want things to go. It's great if the global
[00:11:30] ecosystem remains open. What's your take on um President Trump taking 9 10% of Intel and and how did that company miss this entire revolution so badly? So, you know, semiconductors, which I've spent my entire career at. I I started TI in 1984, and I've just been semiconductors my my whole career. There are long product cycles. It takes a long time to develop chips. It takes a long time to invest in fabs. It takes a long
[00:12:00] time to define architectures and ecosystems. If you miss a few, uh time is very very uh you will be punished for that. And I think Intel has unfortunately been punished on a few areas. They were punished on on mobile obviously they missed that completely. They were also p punished in terms of manufacturing of uh of going to EUV uh on uh EUV is a an advanced uh methodology for building the smallest chips on the planet. They
[00:12:30] decided not to invest in that probably a decade ago at the rate that TSMC did and they fell behind. Once you fall behind in chips, it's very, very difficult to catch up because the cycle gets on top of you. TSMC now has the best fabs in the world. The leading edge companies, Apple, Nvidia, AMD, they all build a TSMC. TSMC gets better at what they're building. An Intel, a Samsung, they don't get the opportunities. It just compounds. And
[00:12:57] and and that flywheel once it compounds and it compounds, it compounds, it's very hard to catch up. series of position. So if you think about maybe then Intel having lost its footing, you did mention EUV and the leaders there like companies like ASML and then even one step back companies like Carl Zeiss that make these lenses. Those are critical infrastructure that the west needs. Is there a role for the government to be
[00:13:22] spending more capital to incubate those kinds of things so that we have a little bit more diversity in the supply chain? So that you know if you contrast and compare there's the Intel investment but then there's these other things that are still maybe we should also be doing. Oh 100%. I mean if you look at um one of one of the most critical components in building chips are these rare earth compounds and there's a belief that oh
[00:13:45] China has cornered the market because they have all the access to these rare earth minerals. The access for the minerals are global. There's no issue in getting access to materials. Yeah, the issue is in the refinement and actually building the factories that can refine the materials. Again, that's a decades level of investment. And I'll tell you one thing that I when I I lived in China for a number of years and one of the things
[00:14:08] that I was very impressed with when I lived there and still am is the uh industrial policy that sits inside the central government that will last uh respectfully an election cycle and it will essentially be something that they require a lot of the folks who are in the Ministry of Technology to be engineers to be thinking about a policy on on building. So to your question, should the US do it? Absolutely. Okay. So Rene, let me put you on the
[00:14:36] spot. Look, between the Korea trade deal, the Japanese trade deal, the European trade deal, you know, we have close to now two trillion of investment capital that these countries will make into the United States. How do we go about creating an ASML type company or capability or you know these lenses like how do we do that? What universities do we go to or what labs do we go to? What do we do? I I I think there probably needs to be
[00:15:04] more of some of the US companies working together. And I'll say this because ARM is not a US company, but we I would do the same if I would working together uh pool pulling capital for some of these initiatives to essentially get some type of grounding. You need universities uh but you need corporations to get behind this as well as well as uh financing private equity all kinds of different capital because this is a this is a huge
[00:15:29] capital investment that also requires investment from companies and and and private equity but at the same time needs to last for years. No text Just talking about the fabs TSMC's built this facility in Arizona. There was reports about the inability to get labor to train labor to get a workforce that I don't know what the right term to use is culturally the workforce would operate the same way as they do back in Taiwan
[00:15:53] and they were really challenged and they had to bring folks over to Arizona to work the facility. These were news reports so I I we don't know this firsthand. Do you think we have the capacity to do fabs in in the United States on uh on shore here? And what's it going to take if you were in the administration? Let's say you were the AISAR for example. What would you advise the president to do to ensure that that
[00:16:14] happens successfully? Yeah, I don't want I don't want to take anything away from David. He's doing an amazing job as the AISAR. You've hit a very key tenant though relative to uh worldclass manufacturing inside the United States and what is required to uh to make that happen. We had it decades ago, believe it or not. There was there was a time where the leading contract manufacturers uh in the world were US-based companies
[00:16:40] uh and uh and we knew how to do that. And if you go back 30 years ago when Apple and Compact used to build their own PCs and they had their own factories, believe it or not, then all of that went to companies like Flextronics and SCI etc etc. So we had that uh ultimately for cost reasons that began to move all the way to uh to the Far East into Foxcon in China etc etc. There's a great book uh Apple in China that documents a lot of this to your
[00:17:10] point in terms of you know could we get that back in some ways there's no reason why we why we couldn't but it is a mindset TSMC is a 24/7 operation where if a line goes down or a customer's got a problem not only are the technicians need to be ready to go the engineers to be need to be ready to go and that is something that uh I think we've lost the muscle memory inside the United States quite frankly on how to go do that. I