[00:14:33] like some kind of I don't know, it's like a Jewish conspiracy. That would be the first thing according to them I would do. We've never done anything like this. I've never done anything like this. um to actually understand the answer any and and and I love these questions about the skeptic because like I actually love skeptics like I tend to divide the world into you have palanteer derangement system syndrome which I don't spend a lot of time on and I think they're
[00:14:58] anti-builder you have palanteer skeptics and you have people who don't like paler if you're a palunteer skeptic or you don't like us I want to engage and the any technology that works can be abused we are the single worst technology to used to abuse civil liberties which is by the way the reason why we could never get the NSA or the FBI to actually buy our product and until recently like sigant institutions would never buy our product yeah you laugh because it's like obvious if you want to do data analytics
[00:15:29] in a way that evviscerates our civil liberties you don't want alles you don't want branching you don't want pipelining you in in more like logs you don't want logs and like a you don't want serialization and des serialization in your product if you have serialization and deserialization of your product that's intelligible. You are basically creating a product that's going to be really really hard to abuse uh and the logs are immutable in
[00:15:51] Palunteer. So like and by the way the single most civil liberties heavy place in the world is hating on us every day. And you know what they're buying every day? Palanteer. It's called Europe. And you know why? Sorry, I want to get to this cuz this is important cuz I get basically attacked by skeptics and anti-palenteer people that deserve an And by the way, do not, this is a lesson for you. Do not believe anything I'm
[00:16:13] saying. And if you're online watching, I don't know, Nick Fentes, Call Me the Jewish Conspiracy, do yourself a favor and say, "Yeah, that could be really interesting." Spend 20 minutes looking at the product. 20 minutes looking at the product and say, "Is this not the hardest product to abuse in the world? Is it not built to be? And by the way, and then I'll get to direct answers of your questions. And by the way, that's made me very rich because the civil
[00:16:38] liberties protections we built into PG are the same things that we use to orchestrate large language models, the same way we orchestrate internally, and the same things you will need to make any enterprise in the world work. Because every enterprise in the world, public or private, needs deserialization, alles, branching, some kind of scaffolding to make the LLMs work, which means the LLMs have a have an ability to do a taxonomy on your business, but without touching the
[00:17:05] business, that you can control where they're deployed, that they don't have access to your data, that you have uh uh immutable logs, and that you can measure the output against both any against highfidelity data sets that can be viewed in any way pro permissible, and that you the permissions are enforced. So, hardest product in the world to abuse. I'm telling you, we've never done anything like this. Please verify. Do not trust me. Certainly, do not trust
[00:17:30] the PE. By the way, as a rule, the one thing I would say critical on the outside, do not trust anyone who's never built anything. It's so easy to have all these opinions. You have all these [ __ ] opinions about how the world works, how data works, how businesses work, how we got off the ground. I'm a conspiracy. Somehow they gave it to me, but not you. even though like I'd be the least likely person to get to sue the US government twice. We had to hire the
[00:17:55] most important engineers in the world and be laughed and shhat upon by the whole world for 20 years before anyone took it seriously because we were a conspiracy. And you know why people believe it? Because they've never had a job. They've never built anything. And anyone who has no know there's no that's just not the way the world works. For me to succeed, just like for you to succeed, you're going to have to be 10x better than anyone else in the room or you will fail. And that's true for me.
[00:18:16] That's true for you. That's true for every American. And it's always been true. It's always been true. And any Sorry. Sorry. I gotta get to this. And anyone who tells you anyone anyone anyone who tells you that's not true is you are the mark. You are the mark. If you're being taught, and that's what I would tell the protesters or the college, you're the mark. They're telling you I'm succeeding because I just got it handed to me and somehow it's unfair. No. No one handed anything to anyone at Palunteer. PG is
[00:18:45] still the best product on the market. No one even tries to compete it foundry. Go ahead. Go try to build it. Try to organize a team of people as good as Palunteerians. Go ahead. Try try try to do it for 20 years. Try to build a vision engagement. I would like to try to ask a question. Sorry. One second. All I want to say is I'm glad you're on our side. So then my lord try to try try to try try I don't need it. Try try try to build ontology and fds five six years
[00:19:13] before anyone thought it was try to raise the capital. try to be laughed at. But to your questions, no, we are not surveilling uh US citizens. No, our data is not being used to aggregate and to create uh imputed uh way because you could say, do you do it directly? Do you do it indirectly? That's a fair question. No. Would I do this? Don't have to believe me, but I've never done it in 20 years. I've told every single
[00:19:36] important per I I do a lot of constructive engagement internally like with countries because, you know, people know I'm kind of on their side in the west. I I've told every single major leader that's ever that I would not do something and it's cost and by the way it's cost Palunteer a lot of money. We never worked with China. We never worked with Russia. We never worked with adversarial. We got laughed out of the same room. Okay. Okay.
[00:20:00] Um this morning there was a report um that there was No text some sort of an attack that Israel affected inside of Qatar against the terrorists of Hamas. I just want to give you a chance to talk about Israel, Gaza, that whole conflict. You've talked about it a lot. You have a lot of opinions. People have tried to obviously attack you and mischaracterize some of the things you said. So, well, actually, they've often
[00:20:23] characterized what I've said correctly. Oh, so but okay. Um, uh, yeah, I I look there the Israel they're they're for me just fun before he gets as big, they're fundamental issues. Uh, does Israel have a claim to the land? Yes. Does Israel Yeah. So again, like does Israel have a right to defend itself? Yes. Has Israel done something America would not have done under circumstances? I think America would have been a lot more brutal. And again, uh, now then you
[00:21:01] get to the humanitarian thing and I'll say abstracting from there. I believe progressives in this country are working day and night to hurt poor people in this country. I don't believe they're progressive. And I would say I do not I believe that through direct and indirect engagement I'm clearly not in favor of Palestinian innocent people being killed. I I am not in favor of that. And and I'll tell you so then the question
[00:21:29] is are you allowed to fight war? And then the po the other point is if you want to minimize human life, innocent human life being killed, you're going to have to use software. And this is going to have to be better than the future than it is now. The it's true Israel's ratio of of like casualty, innocent to non- innocent, is better than anyone has ever had in the history of humanity. And it's going to have to be better in the future. Does your software help send aid to the
[00:21:53] refugees or can it? I the you have to be very careful. There's a like I want to avoid like I can't go into exact like I'm not allowed to say where we're used where we're not used. Um but then there's there's a sometimes a trick people do is like oh I'm not used for this and I'm not used for that when in fact you know we are used in Israel and like I would say as a generalization where word are used in Israel most people in this audience
[00:22:18] would be very supportive of and it's and it actually has been very precise and deadly and I support that. Alex, No text yesterday we had Tucker here and um he made some references to opening borders, declining fertility rates, and actual programs for assisted suicide in Canada. All of which may speak to the West's intention of committing suicide. Do you think the West generally is committing suicide? If so, why? What gets us here?
[00:22:51] I I mean you have to dis disambiguate America like I walked around your audience. This isn't not an audience committing suicide. This is an audience fighting to win. Um and before I get to this question and the one thing I would tell you guys is you're going to have to fight to win because currently I'm one of the few people other people on stage who speak up. You're going to have to speak up and and explain to people why you have the right to win or it may be taken from you. And so you're gonna have to you're
[00:23:20] gonna have to fight. And by the way, here I mean I don't mean left right here. Both parties need a little bit of kick in the ass here. Like it's like it's just, you know, we we have a right to win. We need to win. And you have an individual right to fight to win in this country and it should not be taken away from you. And it could be if you don't stand up and tell people, no, your idea is ridiculous. And I just let me explain to you how this works. Then I mean the
[00:23:42] country I for those of you who don't know, I spent half my life in I wrote this PhD in Germany. It's a country I I know France reasonably well actually. Uh but um so when I'm talking about Europe, Europe is obviously not Europe. You have East and West Europe and and Eastern European countries are very very different than Western European countries. Denmark's very different uh and the Nordics are very different. So but generally when people in this country are in general talking about you
[00:24:05] know committing suicide they're really thinking in their mind's eye Germany. It's like you have a country with you know arguably you know had you know pre-software AI the best industrial base in the world the best schools in the world they have vocational schools so like you know Germany unlike you know they never neglected their working class like you have two different kinds of vocational schools in Germany you have for like lower level and high high level
[00:24:29] vocational training in Germany puts you on the factory floor doing important things and you earn a real salary with real benefits your whole life and have rights um it has best healthcare best life and for those of you who embrace a lascivious lifestyle by far the best think about it. Uh and so really the high and the highest level of data protection, highest level of integrity. Um best position to win and okay and
[00:24:54] suddenly you got you know the energy uh they basically blew up the energy market. They blew up immigration and they blew up essentially you know their tech scene. It's like and now it's like very hard to ask an answer to the question what is the future and I as a kind of sideline diagnostic and like Peter and I who they should be calling every day on speedale like like they spend every day talking about us for those of you German you'll know like every single day three times a day is
[00:25:23] Peter Darth Vader and I'm Lord Cyph. Uh it's like and like meanwhile they should be calling us. Um the the way you commit suicide in the in the west is you stop believing that the your particular culture has something sior in it. Like yes, Germany screwed up a lot of stuff in World War II, but to believe that there's nothing special, unique, and uniquely valuable about German culture is insanity. It It's like complete insanity. And there's nothing wrong with saying you're
[00:25:59] proud to be German. Like in German, you're literally far right of center. If you're like, "Yeah, it's been sto that that will put you like like I'm proud to be German." So like like like there are even at Palanteer, one of the crazy things about Palunteer is how German we are. Like we we take everything to like every question to like the nth degree and then recatenate the thing before we make a decision. every single person at
[00:26:24] Palanteer. So, you know, I get that, you know, Germany has this problem to some degree with being able to look in the mirror, but what about France and Britain, right? They won World War II. Why what what's why are they pursuing the same policies? Um, Canada and the policy we're talking about, just to be clear, is just allowing an extreme amount of immigration. Well, I'm trying to I'm trying I'm trying to ask if there's a thread that can connect declining. Again, the jump off place here is for very different and
[00:26:55] very nonconnected reasons, they all decided there was nothing special about their culture, right? And and like and again, Frances would be even better example because they have a much better narrative. They actually had a resistance. It wasn't as big as people say, but it existed. France, you know, the crazy thing about LLMs is it should have been built and I mean the whole center of gravity should be in France. Like the two best math cultures in the
[00:27:21] world are Russia and France and like we hire ad nauseium from France. So uh but France it they gave up on two things and France actually might even be the better example. If you in France the for those of you who aren't French France is religiously focused on meritocracy. So they have this one school you have to get into. It's all about math. And the reason it's about math is the socialists in French in France decided that having
[00:27:44] like verbal high verbal IQ was a class-based thing. And so they religiously into meritocracy and the whole definition of it is mathematical aptitude. France is complicated. You a far right far left in between somehow and in other count it's like there it's very hard to articulate in France why you think French culture is better than any other culture in Europe from a French perspective. And then for example concretely if you want to build a
[00:28:15] product if you build it in France it should be absolutely mathematical and aesthetic. If you build it in Germany it's going to have to be conceptual and manufacturing base. You're going to have a different tech scene a different way of organizing it. And then last not least and this is the thing we have to fight for the most. They're they become anti-ameritocratic. So like if you're in Germany or France and you're the best of the best of the best you're going to
[00:28:38] wait 30 years before you have a real job. Why? Because why had they become anti-marritocrat? Well, there's again the people out there protesting or the people the faculty members at Berkeley have taught them to protest the Yeah. The lot of strays for Berkeley. Uh well we can pick on Stanford but chance but but but but they equate morally losing with losing in the real world with winning in in the like in immorally and it it seems like a crazy way to think because in the
[00:29:14] end everyone Christian value. So and I asked this because I heard someone have a talk about this where the the the moral spectrum used to be strong and weak. you know, cavemen, the strongest would survive and the weakest would die. And that was how we measured what was right and what was wrong. And then what became right and wrong was this notion of good and evil, turn the cheek, compassion, etc. The the now I mean there are many many different schools of Christianity. And so like even in this case like Lutheran
[00:29:44] uh Christianity and uh Catholic French Christianity are are are basically not correlated. They're both Christian. What's special about America was Calvinism like we are the most Calvinist culture in the world and actually the protesters are anti-alism. What does Calvinism mean? Calvinism celebrates success. De facto almost everybody in America that's that is whether you're Jewish, Muslim, Christian, the underlying backdrop of America is this
[00:30:13] Calvinist view. And the anti-calvinist cultures of Europe, Lutheranism, other kinds of cultures, they they do equate like, you know, behind every great success is a great crime is a is a famous Volarian classic. And it it's and and we don't have this in this country. If this slips, you basically end up in a situation where everybody who is is succeeding or is perceived to be in a group that is disproportionately succeeding ends up on the firing wall. And what does that happen to the whole society? your GD you know one of the
[00:30:43] more interesting are we seeing that with anti-semitism one what one I get one of the more interesting facts about France is between 61 and 91 their G GDP grew faster than America's so this is a very special culture now the anti-semitism well I don't No text particularly like I actually think it should be disambiguated I actually like someone liking or not liking a Jewish person or being skeptical of Jews that's irrelevant somebody who has Jewish derangement syndrome that wants to burn