[00:00:00] No text Sometimes traditional stock analysis just lets you down. That's how I feel about the stock of Poundinger. A billion dollars in quarterly revenue for the first time ever. The stock has just ripped. They have delivered here beyond the expectation and the expectations were obviously remarkably high. Carb's the kind of guy who kicks you know what and then he gets in your face afterwards and he tells you that he just did that.
[00:00:24] As usual, I've been cautioned to be a little modest about our bombastic numbers. If you work for Palanteer, everyone knows you're good. And to all supporters of Palanteer, merry Christmas and a happy New Year's. And to all people who hated on us, enjoy your cult. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Palunteer CEO Alex Carp. Great to see you. Thanks for coming out. Hey, man. How are you? Awesome. you. How are you doing? Well, thanks for coming out. By the way, thank all of you guys.
[00:01:08] Great crowd. You have the best people. You have So, you have a lot of fans here. Yeah. No text Yesterday, we also had a number of protesters. Hopefully enough. Why are they What are they protesting? They're protesting Alex Karp being here. Categorize for me what's going on. Who are the protesters? Why do they protest? Who are the fans? Why do they love you? What can you see? Good taste. Good taste. Um well, there is an issue of taste and
[00:01:39] I think actually um you know like you always have to kind of try to steal man. And so like probably the people protesting me just have heard that they should protest me. But you know I if you ask why could they have an argument or why do why should you like me love me some cases honestly some of you guys like and love me more than I like myself which takes a little work but um uh the um I think this audience as an example though is almost unfair because builders
[00:02:21] basically learn from watching like highly highly talented people basically put a discount rate on everything anyone says and measure accomplishment based on outperformance against that discount rate. And you'll find if you're managing future builders, a lot of pal anyone who's palunteer in shaped that de facto you get street cred by outperforming against expectations where expectations are are are kind of
[00:02:53] multiplied against a high discount rate. So I think what you'd find in this audience is two things converging. one, you know, the journey of Palunteer is completely counterintuitive and especially technical experts. You know, the FDE thing was viewed as like you weren't going to get a multiple. I was viewed as like this magical wizard who could get the smartest people in the world to work on something that was de facto stupid. Um uh uh we were a quote
[00:03:20] unquote terrible at public relations and we stood up for the US government even when it was really really unpopular. Uh, and then there are a lot of people in the audience who agree with that. But I think as importantly, look at the results. Look at the fruits we bore. Look at the people we have on our side. And then you get to the other side. And again, it would be easy just to dismiss the other side as I don't know, stupid. They don't know what's going on. Um,
[00:03:45] let's just take the intellectually rigorous version of why you would be against what we're doing. there's a misconception uh that AI and tech is going to exclude everyone who's not in this room. And so a lot of people who are protesting actually what they're protesting is there's no way to get in this room. And in fact the way the way aptitude and the way the imple the implementation of things has worked, they're just wrong.
[00:04:13] And because they've assumed that, they then go into what I would call super regggressive non-working philosophical or empirical models where they assume the losers are noble. But actually what they're really assuming is they can't win. And then you get to um then you get to more subtle things. I do think there's an issue with our lead institutions that have taken the best and brightest and most valuable things you could teach someone and have turned it into some kind of Stalinistic [ __ ] that is
[00:04:44] anti-correlated with everything that that works in the west which is like individual accomplishment and uh and if you had to if you had to say what is the central val what is the central thing we do in America better than anyone else it's like allowing people to express their individual artistry in a way where you [ __ ] win like with no apologies. And then because they think they're on the loser side of this, they assume morality can't be against them. And then they are trained to to to believe that
[00:05:18] and to understand it. Of course, if you're a professor at Berkeley teaching about Haidiger, you think losing is good because you lost. That's that's of course the whole reason you you think that. You think that because you are the noble loser and this but again where it gets super super dangerous and where I do think we have to do a better job is you can't just assume there's no truth in what they believe which is like we have not done a even adequate job of helping people at
[00:05:51] the bottom is um some part of their criticism about um the situation in Gaza oh so that I'm getting now you can get to No. Well, first of all, I get yelled out about, you know what I get yelled at most about is actually enforcing the border. That's number one. So, like I get our southern border. Our southern border. Like, so again, I'll go through all three issues. I get yelled at about first of all, for
[00:06:15] decades, I got yelled So, they're legitimate issues to go over, but I just want for those of you who don't know the history. I've been yelled at for 20 years and protested primarily for supporting special operations in America. And you just got to imagine that I'm being protested for bringing soldiers home alive and killing our enemies. And these are people who serve our country and have been largely screwed by both parties. Like both
[00:06:42] parties have totally screwed them. And so I've been yelled So that's that's what I got yelled at. Uh my and then I got yelled at about that every single day. Then I got yelled at under Biden, under Obama, Biden. And especially obviously if Trump's doing it, you're definitely getting yelled at for enforcing the border. Now, I want to say I don't understand how in the world of AI you cannot be for somewhat of a constrained border because we can make
[00:07:09] it work for every single person who's actually American and we can make laborers more valuable. We need extra labor that's not inv either completely the most talented in the world like many people in this room or who are bringing skills. Also, we have enough transparency. You can't you can't say you don't know who's in your country. It's complete BS. It's completely anti-correlated, by the way, with being progressive. I grew up in the most
[00:07:32] progressive family ever. And every Friday night at Shabbat, there was a lecture on how the Republicans are screwing our country by undermining the worker and bringing in cheap labor. So, okay. So, I got yelled out about that. So, and then I fought about that actually mostly and then commercially got yelled at about how could you have these FDES is going to blow up your multiple. Um, now everybody wants to be an FDA, but okay. So now you go, now I'm
[00:07:54] getting yelled at primarily about ICE. What's going on? How's it going on? Who's is the treatment just? The one thing I would say, and I can we can go through each one of these individual things. The weird, the obvious fact is if you care about not being surveiled illegally, if you care about the treatment of people who come into the country illegally but deserve adequate treatment, if you care about lives in
[00:08:19] Gaza, in Ukraine, and all over the world where Palunteers used, you're going to want the best software in the world because it's the only way you can reduce and more precisely target the people and justifiably and actually the only way where you can say this person did this and they deserve to go. And so, you know, um and and and each one of these things has to be steel manned and and then let's do that for the the second one, the border. Uh Tucker said yesterday
[00:08:40] No text when he spoke to President Trump, there was no way to know is there 30 million are there 30 million people here illegally, 40, 50, whatever it happens to be. You say you call BS on that. We could easily do it. Is No, I just say we could easily do it and I'm not calling BS on that. I'm actually saying it's a very very hard problem. But in the world of AI and software, you can't say it can't be done. It could very easily be done if we put
[00:09:08] cameras everywhere and we just did facial recognition. But we don't want to live in that. It could be very easily done if you evviscerate our civil liberties. Yeah. That's not being done, right? That's like I could I could grow your revenue at 400% but I'll lose money in perpetuity is not a business. Yeah, of course. And so let's talk about what the solution to that would be. the the border issue is actually a a bit overstated. You have 80 90% of the
[00:09:32] country believes the border should be orderly. That is actually something that most people Okay, sorry. I just got to interrupt you. 80 90% of people believing in it happening are completely just non-connected. Of course, whatever the reason the Biden administration didn't do it, you know, that's over and now we're here and it's closed. But what would your solution be to identifying the people who are Well, again, I I I No, I think you're jumping over a lot of things.
[00:09:55] like it it's it it happened. Okay. What's interesting about political parties in America is that they're anti-correlated with what they claim. Democrats claim to be progressive like me. Having a border is not progressive. President Trump is conservative. Having a border is progressive. And that and and unfortunately until we change the our polity to the to the people actually get a say on the border. By the way, the single best example of this is in
[00:10:19] Europe. So how do you explain the complete dysfunction in Europe? You know, most Europeans, Germans, there are many Germans in the audience. Hello. Um, how many of you guys don't how how many of you guys are happy with the immigration situation you have in Germany? None. How many will talk about it publicly? How many will do anything? And then you get to these issues. The polity will frame the issue so that
[00:10:42] there is no solution. The only solution is to accept a solution no one wants. And that's what we had. And it's not and and part of the problem the reason the border is such an interesting thing is the reason you get an open border is politicians do not want to address the real problems of the society which would mean the workers of today have more value tomorrow than they have today because they have no earthly clue how to do that. They're like, "We'll just open
[00:11:07] the border and we'll get free labor and if you're on the left, we'll get people who will vote for us." And that it's like, but and the reason the way in which if you kind of steal man your questions, Gaza, Ukraine border, you have to raise the moral standard. So it's it's not again the way you led this is like if we just put up a camera. Yes, you can stop terrorism or you can have civil liberties is a little bit like you can have growth without revenue or you
[00:11:31] can have revenue without growth. If you want to solve the problem, you have to increase civil liberties and stop people from being in your country illegally. And the reason it doesn't happen is because there's slippage in the execution, which is absolutely purposeful. And if we don't want this country to be what Europe is now, and I lived in Europe most of my life, my grandmother, if German law was made any sense, would be German and I would be
[00:11:57] have a German passport. If we don't want that, you have to close the border. You have to make sure that people who have a right to be here get to stay. People who don't have a right to to stay get treated fairly. By the way, both sides have to step up. It's not enough to say I'm against the border or whatever, but I have no solution for what's going to happen for people, which is unfortunately what my point what's your solution for just your
[00:12:21] personal solution for what to do with the 30 million people who are here illegally. What would you do? Well, first of all, I would I mean, my personal solution would be you divide the pie. Everybody who's criminal, criminal, adjacent or has anything to do with crime is going to leave and I'm going and I'm going to make it so that they self-deport because I'm going to come tomorrow in a way you don't like it. That's number one. And there's 90%.
[00:12:47] No, you have a lot of No, that's easy to agree on. Nobody wants felons here. It's easy to agree on. Yeah, but but the the the paradigm is like it's easy because again you're like civil but any case it these things are much much harder than they look as an example. How do you do that without evviscerating our civil liberties? How do we make sure the criminals how do you know someone's criminal? What standard of of what standard of practice to use to define if someone's criminal? Are all
[00:13:11] criminals the same? Because de facto, if you go broad brush the way you basically are, it's like yes, but being in the country illegally is a felon. killing someone or potentially kill someone a different kind. How do you deal with the people that are around them? How do you deal with law enforcement people databases that are not made public to you? How do you deal with imputed data? How do you deal with data? How do you do do you do predict? But that's the question. So you're
[00:13:34] restating the question. I'm asking you to answer it. Well, I'm restating the question. So it's a question. I think that's the thing. Let me let me I'm hoping you'd answer it. Let me let me let me flesh this out a bit. Um so so look everyone on the right at least agrees that we should have a strong border. One of the criticisms or concerns that I hear on the right or from civil libertarians is that Palunteer has a largecale data data
[00:14:00] collection program on American citizens. So not foreign terrorists, not illegals but American citizens. Can you just clear that up and say that either Palunteer is not doing that or under what circumstances you do? Yeah. So, um, first of all, I just want to like Palanteer like there's a technical version which I'm going to give you, but like we we had a a Democratic administration come to us and basically ask us to do a Muslim database. Now, you would think given the way I'm kind of bismerched as
[00:14:33] like some kind of I don't know, it's like a Jewish conspiracy. That would be the first thing according to them I would do. We've never done anything like this. I've never done anything like this. um to actually understand the answer any and and and I love these questions about the skeptic because like I actually love skeptics like I tend to divide the world into you have palanteer derangement system syndrome which I don't spend a lot of time on and I think they're
[00:14:58] anti-builder you have palanteer skeptics and you have people who don't like paler if you're a palunteer skeptic or you don't like us I want to engage and the any technology that works can be abused we are the single worst technology to used to abuse civil liberties which is by the way the reason why we could never get the NSA or the FBI to actually buy our product and until recently like sigant institutions would never buy our product yeah you laugh because it's like obvious if you want to do data analytics
[00:15:29] in a way that evviscerates our civil liberties you don't want alles you don't want branching you don't want pipelining you in in more like logs you don't want logs and like a you don't want serialization and des serialization in your product if you have serialization and deserialization of your product that's intelligible. You are basically creating a product that's going to be really really hard to abuse uh and the logs are immutable in
[00:15:51] Palunteer. So like and by the way the single most civil liberties heavy place in the world is hating on us every day. And you know what they're buying every day? Palanteer. It's called Europe. And you know why? Sorry, I want to get to this cuz this is important cuz I get basically attacked by skeptics and anti-palenteer people that deserve an And by the way, do not, this is a lesson for you. Do not believe anything I'm
[00:16:13] saying. And if you're online watching, I don't know, Nick Fentes, Call Me the Jewish Conspiracy, do yourself a favor and say, "Yeah, that could be really interesting." Spend 20 minutes looking at the product. 20 minutes looking at the product and say, "Is this not the hardest product to abuse in the world? Is it not built to be? And by the way, and then I'll get to direct answers of your questions. And by the way, that's made me very rich because the civil
[00:16:38] liberties protections we built into PG are the same things that we use to orchestrate large language models, the same way we orchestrate internally, and the same things you will need to make any enterprise in the world work. Because every enterprise in the world, public or private, needs deserialization, alles, branching, some kind of scaffolding to make the LLMs work, which means the LLMs have a have an ability to do a taxonomy on your business, but without touching the