[00:28:15] product if you build it in France it should be absolutely mathematical and aesthetic. If you build it in Germany it's going to have to be conceptual and manufacturing base. You're going to have a different tech scene a different way of organizing it. And then last not least and this is the thing we have to fight for the most. They're they become anti-ameritocratic. So like if you're in Germany or France and you're the best of the best of the best you're going to
[00:28:38] wait 30 years before you have a real job. Why? Because why had they become anti-marritocrat? Well, there's again the people out there protesting or the people the faculty members at Berkeley have taught them to protest the Yeah. The lot of strays for Berkeley. Uh well we can pick on Stanford but chance but but but but they equate morally losing with losing in the real world with winning in in the like in immorally and it it seems like a crazy way to think because in the
[00:29:14] end everyone Christian value. So and I asked this because I heard someone have a talk about this where the the the moral spectrum used to be strong and weak. you know, cavemen, the strongest would survive and the weakest would die. And that was how we measured what was right and what was wrong. And then what became right and wrong was this notion of good and evil, turn the cheek, compassion, etc. The the now I mean there are many many different schools of Christianity. And so like even in this case like Lutheran
[00:29:44] uh Christianity and uh Catholic French Christianity are are are basically not correlated. They're both Christian. What's special about America was Calvinism like we are the most Calvinist culture in the world and actually the protesters are anti-alism. What does Calvinism mean? Calvinism celebrates success. De facto almost everybody in America that's that is whether you're Jewish, Muslim, Christian, the underlying backdrop of America is this
[00:30:13] Calvinist view. And the anti-calvinist cultures of Europe, Lutheranism, other kinds of cultures, they they do equate like, you know, behind every great success is a great crime is a is a famous Volarian classic. And it it's and and we don't have this in this country. If this slips, you basically end up in a situation where everybody who is is succeeding or is perceived to be in a group that is disproportionately succeeding ends up on the firing wall. And what does that happen to the whole society? your GD you know one of the
[00:30:43] more interesting are we seeing that with anti-semitism one what one I get one of the more interesting facts about France is between 61 and 91 their G GDP grew faster than America's so this is a very special culture now the anti-semitism well I don't No text particularly like I actually think it should be disambiguated I actually like someone liking or not liking a Jewish person or being skeptical of Jews that's irrelevant somebody who has Jewish derangement syndrome that wants to burn
[00:31:09] down the whole society to get rid of the obvious fact that Jews do well under marriage crack situation. That's a problem for everybody, not just for Jews. And it should be very much focused like, you know, in private I'm very critical of like these advocacy groups and I'm constantly hanging up on them and of course I'm not going to give you any [ __ ] money. That's the most ridiculous [ __ ] ever. Like it's like you're like what the [ __ ]
[00:31:31] It's like the best culture in the world and we got to come. But like the the the the like uh like the the the thing that becomes dangerous is when you have like derangement syndrome. And the derangement syndrome comes from Yeah. You know you know if you're a classic the classic liberal inputs have to be really really fair as fair as we can make them and outputs are never going to be fair. Alex, can I ask you about China for one
[00:31:52] No text second? So, we talked with Tulsa yesterday and one of the things, you know, just to connect the dots, like we were able to designate these cartels as terrorist organizations. There's all this drugs flowing in. We're trying to shut that down. The precursors are still coming in very aggressively from China. And so, I'm just curious um what is the geopolitical frame that we need to think about China in? How much are they facilitating everything that's happening at the southern border? How responsible
[00:32:21] may they be for the fentinel epidemic in the United States? How should what should we do about it? Well, you know, it's funny like obviously Palunteer and I are wildly skeptical of the CCP, but you know, I I think I'm the highest ranked Tai Chichi practitioner in corporate life in the world. And it it's like in you you have you're like sorry, say that again. You're like Slevel Tai Chichi like uh well, you know, like that video that was very high level internal martial
[00:32:47] arts. I'm not at that level, but I I mean among my corporate peers, it's like yeah, I have the equivalent in V22 max terms of like a 72, right, or something like that. And um uh in Tai Chi and the the you you you the the way the way the kind of part of the culture that I admire works like in Tai Chi is you you put pressure on all parts of the system to expose the weak part of the system internally of your adversary. And that that is just the way Chinese like
[00:33:19] at least Tai Chichi martial arts works even I mean they're not useful for fighting but it is very useful for thinking Tai Chi and um or as useful for fighting as you know. So um and if you want to engage the way the way an engagement with China works is you make your or in Chai Chi terms you want to engage with China you better make sure the internal dynamics of this country are very strong. It's magically the
[00:33:43] external dynamics over there will shift. They trying to destabilize our country with fentinel, with Tik Tok, and you have concerns about Well, okay. Obvious like Yeah, obviously. But again, I'll tell you what. So, they're obviously I'm in full agreement. No. Yeah. No, but but like but my version always of this is it's their job to stabilize us. It's our job to be stable. And like I, you know, it's like
[00:34:06] when you're most people here are running successful businesses, it's like well said. It's our job to be stable. It's our stable. Like if you want to the Tai Chi version of like you're not going to have to enter the fight if you're strong. There is no fight. If there's a fight, you like the famous martial arts thing is like if you're in a fight, you're not a martial artist. Correct. So, and this is like the same thing in business. Like when you get to the point
[00:34:27] where you're competing with someone, you've really suck [ __ ] something up. Like if you look at the pounder version, yeah, do FTDEs, do ontology, do uh do do ontology, orchestrate them at scale, grow 93%. man, people don't want or work with the US government like people are like that's kind of hard and really unfun. Let me give you a precise question here about um these cartels who are bringing fentinol into the country. They're killing a 100,000 Americans a year.
[00:34:56] 9/11, we lost 3,000 people tragically. Um if they're not terrorists, then how would you define them? And should we be using the same test as to our engagement with them and should we be eliminating them as terrorists with prejudice? Um well I obviously agree with that. Um I I think honestly the problem is they even think they can get away with this. Like one of one of the more interesting things is when you read people who are
[00:35:27] against America taking out you know these naroterrorists there it's always something like we've got to use a reified meaning overly deterministic form of law to the point where America has to die. Back to your question. Yeah. Due process for al Qaeda makes no sense. it it well it's like the the the interesting thing here actually with a point of agreement is uh if you allow okay to just take like an obvious example of like fraud human rights watch okay so they'll take a standard they'll
[00:36:00] move the standard and then the downstream consequence of it is that we've got to disappear and die right and then but then even worse than that they're actually paving the way for a fascism because Americans and no one else are going to tolerate that level of dysfunction. These [ __ ] are killing 50 100 thousand of our people. The fact that they think they can get away with this is a real problem. We should just and and it's like and and the fact that
[00:36:25] somebody's going to say it's again you have the European version. It's like you know or any it's like if you allow you have to protect the data and find the terrorists because otherwise you get a form of fascism. You get it on the left because we have terror attacks and fentinel across our street and you get it it on the classic far right which is No text Alex. What did you mean earlier when you said progressives want you to be poor? I I may be paraphrasing incorrectly but
[00:36:52] what the the the modern progressive movement is clearly not progressive. Progressive is defined by the working class do better tomorrow than they did today and know it. Right. Okay, to do that you need things that you can do at scale now. Vocational training on AI based systems. Making our laborers more valuable obviously closing the border so that you don't reduce the amount that you pay people and also eviscerate legal protections. This is
[00:37:25] not progressive. It's not progressive by the way to have so little competence or willing to use force that we get overrun by drugs. Who do those drugs go to? disproportionately poor people of color. Yes, it's not progressive to have crime rates. You know, the to be a civil war zone, to be a war zone, you have to have five five deaths per 100,000. That's like half our cities. How's that progressive? What you mean? You care
[00:37:50] about poor people so much you're just going to let them kill each other? All right. Can you shift gears here? So, Alex, I think you've developed a little bit of a reputation of a defender of the West, and you've talked about that here. I'm wondering can you criticize uh any aspect of of western foreign policy like for example during the war on terror was it a good idea to occupy Afghanistan? I've never been in like this is the
[00:38:15] thing I I it's like I've never been in neocon. I actually don't think that's the pro-western the pro-western superiority thing is we do what we do really well. Why are we trying to make people us? I've never understood this. By the way, the neocon thing, the prom migration people and the pro-occupation people abroad, it's the same philosophy. I don't actually think migration is working in the west because people don't want to change. I don't think like and why are we teaching the Arab Middle East
[00:38:40] how to live better? I the countries that I won't go into names that seem to love and rever me and paler, they're doing really well. Like they have a way of living their life. It works really well. It largely involves different ways of living than we would. There's no first amendment. There's really not a fourth amendment. And I'm not that interested in that. And so I I don't And by the way, I think that destabilizes everyone. So I I completely I am against I am very in favor of using force where it's
[00:39:05] needed. But force a where it's needed and doing occupation are completely different things. And you will see across the world people who want to convince like I don't know convince Afghani villagers to be pro- feminist will also explain to you that the people that end up coming here are going to be pro- western in their values three generations out. is completely I want to thank you for being on our side and I want to thank my wife for
[00:39:30] buying your stock at $20. Thank you. No, Alex, we deeply appreciate you being here and I think that your voice is one of the most important voices in the world today and I thought this was such an important voice to bring forward. I don't see you do a lot of long form. I don't see a lot of your long form get public. I I think this is so important for everyone to hear, to swallow, to digest, and hopefully to evolve and and grow from it. And I really appreciate you. Thank you so much for being here
[00:40:01] today. Please join me in thanking Alex Carr. Thank you. [ __ ] yeah. [ __ ] yeah. Thank you, sir. [ __ ] yeah.