[01:03:15] keep the postal service? we have email. Like, no. And then when your argument is is we're going to put a bunch of people out of work if we close the mill down that no one needs, I'd go, put them out of work. We don't need it. That's life. That's the way it's going to go. You're artificially propping some industry up is not the way to go. So, yeah. And people are going to have to start considering this when they're looking at
[01:03:37] a profession. >> Yeah. This is also like an important principle that when technology creates leverage for a person in terms of how much they can create or do in an hour, it's not about replacing them. Then suddenly more will be done per hour by 10x or 100x. You know, it's not like fewer miles are being driven today because we got cars and replaced all the horses and wagons. We're driving far more miles by a,000x, 10,000x. and there
[01:04:05] all these new jobs and new industries that emerged around it, >> which I think is one of the fallacies on thinking about replacing old stuff. >> So, just to wrap up, I mean, maybe looking ahead to 28, we talked a lot about kind of things are headed longer term. Maybe how do you think the presidential elections going to play out in 28. How do you think things are going to go for the midterms? >> I mean, yeah, I'm I'm in the it's the
[01:04:25] economy stupid camp, although I'm not a Carville fan, but I think Trump's implementing a lot of things. I think people, you know, asked him two days in, &quot;How come eggs weren't cheaper?&quot; You know, stuff takes a minute, you know, takes a minute to get the fuel prices down, takes a minute for tariff revenues and things like that. I think Trump's fiscal stuff is going to kick in uh in the new year, and I think people are
[01:04:52] going to start reaping the benefits of that. And I think if that happens and gas is cheap and interest rates are down and homeownership is up and employment is up, then we're going to have four more years of some JD Vance or some sort of, you know, ver Trump 2.0 uh in in office. Um. >> Mhm. >> In terms of the midterms, they may kick in before we feel the full effects of the positive economic um products that that Trump is
[01:05:28] implementing. So that could go, you know, that could sort of go either way. But uh I think for the you know in terms of the presidential election I I feel like if Trump's stuff works like border closed, interest rates down, fuel cheap, foreign skirmishes either eliminated or you know drastically reduced. Um then yeah, someone will go let's let's see what let's see what four more years of this is like versus whatever Camala
[01:05:59] Harris word salad you know or you know insane kind of you know trans the illegal prisoners policy or whatever whatever uh I mean whatever insanity Gavin Newsome wants to implement although he'll have to walk all of it back so that's always the fun part but um >> I like when people pretend like their ideas that they had in their 50s or were now now that you know that's an idea I had when I was 54 and a half but now
[01:06:29] that I'm 57 I've put my childish ways behind me and I'm a new person. It's like no >> if you're making those decisions in your 50s it means that's what you thought. >> But uh yeah, it'll be interesting. I I if the economics kick in and the tariffs work and the gas comes down and the interest rates come down, then yeah, I think it'll be four more years. >> It's crazy. I never was interested in politics. I hate talking about it. I
[01:06:54] hate getting involved in it. Or cuz for me, I've always just been a guy like, &quot;Leave me alone. Let me do my work. Let me live my life. I don't want to think about government and politics.&quot; But it's become so prevalent in our lives. It's become something that all of us almost are forced to discuss and forced to get involved in and forced to have an opinion on and a voice on and understand better because it's so prevalent. I
[01:07:15] mean, you've been I've been listening to you for 30 plus years. This was this ever a thing that you spend time on because we just spent the last hour talking about freaking politics and >> no I I glad we're ending on this point which is everybody I know who you know gets lumped into being a right-winger all they say is I just want to be left alone. I just want to be left alone. I I want to I have a property. It's my
[01:07:41] property. I own it. I pay taxes on it. I would like to rebuild my property. And the government says no, you cannot. And now I have a problem and I'm and it's getting political, but I don't want it to get political. I just want to be left alone. I I got, you know, a niece and she's 5 years old and I don't want a 9- foot tall reading her cat in the hat at the library. But we, this is avoidable. You can just leave her alone
[01:08:07] and you can leave me alone and I'll pay my taxes and I'll be a good neighbor and I'll pick up my dog's poop and we could get on with our lives. But you won't have it. You have to get involved. And most the people I know who are on my side of the aisle in terms of politically and just sort of emotionally are going, I just want to be left alone. I don't if I want a gas stove, I want a gas stove. If I want a gas powered
[01:08:31] truck, I want a gas powered truck. And I would like to be able to rebuild my property using my money to rebuild my property and then pay taxes on that without you getting so involved. So, I'd just like to be left alone. And I think you're you're almost like a bellweather for the fact that the country and the city and the state and other systems of governing have reached a breaking point because so many of us who have no
[01:08:59] interest in politics, never had any interest in it, never focused on it, never spent time on it, almost got wrangled into it because of all of the artifacts of what these systems have turned into. that they now touch every part of our life, disrupt our ability to live our life, to do our business, to do our things, and we're constantly being prodded and poked in a way that feels really wrong. And so, look, Adam, I
[01:09:21] appreciate you spending the time today. This has been awesome. Great to meet and um yeah, thanks for thanks for being with us. >> My pleasure. We'll do it again soon. >> All right, besties. I think that was another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. He crushed your questions in a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What did you guys
[01:09:44] think? That was fun. That was great.