[00:47:04] underpants and not run the furnace at 90° all day. Uh, and then she could look at you and go, &quot;Or you could take a second job and we could just pay the bills.&quot; And you go, &quot;All right. Well, and they're both true. I mean, either California could rein in some of its insane spending or they could just get more money to take care of of those obligations.&quot; And they're both true. And they would actually
[00:47:36] percentages of both would work. you know, you could cut spending 10% and you could get 10% more tax revenue and and and that would work. So, it's not like Roana is mathematically wrong. He is creating a problem which is you guys can't just keep looking at people as piggy banks, especially the ones that are creating the jobs in the creating the industry. uh you need to start looking at ways to rein in your spending. And I think it's a fundamental
[00:48:12] flaw in general with Democrats, which is let's just look around for whoever has the most money and see how much we can get. uh people of California, the people in the highest tax brackets are, you know, they're already at about 50% with state >> 53 with state and federal. So, uh, you can look at them for more, but I I a I think it's in terms of, you know, when they go, &quot;Oh, you know, Trump's a dictator and uh
[00:48:50] this is tyrannical and this this are oligarchs and whatever.&quot; They can say whatever they want, but taking more than 50% of your money, I would argue is the ultimate uh government overreach. Um, no one ever thinks of it that way. They think in terms of like wearing masks or shutting schools or uh getting Jimmy Kimmel fired from his job or something. But the government putting their hand in your pocket all day every day and you
[00:49:19] know wanting all the wealth tax and the estate tax and the expiration tax and all that kind of stuff that that is in it's insane and yes it will drive people away from what wherever entities doing that. The thing I worry about is that it's very hard to cut spending. On the flip side, Adam, by my estimate, more than half of Americans rely on a government check, either directly or indirectly. So, you're either employed
[00:49:42] by the federal, state, or local government or its agencies or one of its contractors, or you're receiving one of the retirement checks from a government agency. And so it's become very difficult because a majority of the population is receiving benefit or living from some sort of government flow of capital which makes it very hard from a democracy perspective to say, &quot;Hey, I'm going to vote to change that.&quot; Who
[00:50:07] would vote to cut their own income, >> right? You take like the retirement age, you know, you go, &quot;Look, Social Security's not going to be able to keep up with this. So why don't we make the retirement age 70?&quot; And then everyone goes out of their minds. And I'm like, look, people live 20 years longer than they used to. I you know, you you look at RFK Jr. over there. He's doing chin-ups. The guy's 71 years old. I
[00:50:31] mean, 70 ain't what it used to be. And by the way, >> I'm 61. I have no intention of retiring at 65. I know plenty of guys that are in their 60s. They're not even, you know, I talk to Dr. Drew and attorney Mark Garagos every other day. Those guys are not nowhere near retiring and they shouldn't retire and we shouldn't want them to retire. So, someone's got to go, look, we're going to raise that age to 70. By the way, I don't know. Jane
[00:51:00] Fonda's 90. She's at work right now. As much as I hate her work and her, but the point is is somebody's going to have to have some balls. And I know it's not popular with all the people who are used to getting money from the government, but someone's going to have to be the adult in the room at some point and stop worrying about their next election and start talking fiscal sanity. >> So, who do you think's the right
[00:51:24] candidate for California? Have you looked at the the slate? Who do you like? And I guess who do you think is probable? >> We cannot have business as usual. business as usual is we are just bottoming out in some sort of slow motion train wreck here. So, you know, the the Swallwells, who who by the way is a dope, you know, a lot of these people are dopes. And I don't I don't think people really understand that, you
[00:51:51] know, like you could you can vehemently disagree with many folks on the other side of the aisle and uh you know, you could disagree with Jim Jordan or Tom Cotton or some someone like that, but they're not dopes. Um Eric Swall is a dope. Um, Camala Harris is a dope. Karen Bass is a dope. These are dumb people who shouldn't be in charge of things because they don't have the intellectual capacity for it. Now, I disagree with
[00:52:24] Barack Obama. I think he's a liar and a race hustler, but he's not a dope. Eric Swall is a dope. And so, first things first, I don't really want a dope, you know, we I don't want a dope governing. Um, and now Gavin Newsome's a sociopath, but he's not a dope. But there's something wrong with him. Clearly wrong, and he doesn't think clearly, and he's not linear at all, and I've interviewed him for an hour, and he's there's something
[00:52:56] wrong with him, but I don't lump him in the dope department. Uh, I will take and and Katie Porter's an idiot and she's a dope. And by the way, her being mean to her employees is the least of my worries. I have no thoughts about that. She's a dumb cow. I heard her statements about some advertising campaign that Chase Bank came out like 5 years ago and she's clearly an idiot. So, we don't we don't want her we don't want any
[00:53:22] business as usual. You know, Steve Hilton, uh Larry Elder, uh Rick Caruso, it doesn't matter. Anybody who who sort of is not a dope and had and and can think like a business person and approach California that way, I'm I'm in on. I mean, I don't know where Rick Caruso's, you know, what his future is. I'm pretty friendly with him. I assume he's going to run and he's great. Steve Hilton's great. Larry Elder's great.
[00:53:50] It's anybody from the right side will will fix this. It cannot have a succession of more dopes and Swallwells and guys like that. Do you think the state can survive as a single party state? You know, I saw this statistic yesterday that I think,00 bills get signed into law a year out of the state assembly because it's a uniarty state. So, you know, there's this extraordinary, some people would call it pillaging of the budget and pillaging of
[00:54:14] resources of California for personal interests that all get kind of funneled through the state senate, state assembly process and bill after bill after bill after bill just gets pumped and signed versus having a more kind of purple state where there could be a process where there's debate. Is there a path to that in California or is it too too long lost where all the people that could make it a purple state are leaving or
[00:54:35] have left? And can we get there? >> Yeah. You know, I think the fire woke some people up. I think all of a sudden people are sounding a little bit different. You know, in a weird way, Hollywood is sort of a bellweather like they're they kind of take the temperature of the state by sort of where Hollywood is, you know, and they were all very far to the left and very liberal and very woke. And for the first time ever, you do hear
[00:55:08] people talking about not wanting to trans the kids, you know, in the in the business, you know what I mean? like piping up, you know, and you have comedians and you have actors and they're talking about like, you know, why weren't those reservoirs filled and no, I'm not voting for Karen Bass and she should have and what how do we let this place burn down and and by the way, what's up with all this production
[00:55:38] leaving to Atlanta and leaving to New Mexico? All of a sudden, the stuff has sort of landed on their plate a little bit, like their house burned down and they have to go out of the country to film their next sitcom. And they're sort of like going and there's a homeless guy pissing on their front porch and their niece got stabbed by a homeless guy just walking to school and there's these campers these Winnebago everywhere
[00:56:06] dealing fentanyl in front of their house you know and they're for the first time ever they're kind of going I don't know maybe maybe this isn't the direction >> and and and and it's true a lot of them have left but Hollywood is a little bit of a yard stick to kind of measure the temperature of the town. And for the first time ever, I am hearing those types comedians and speaking out loud, not not whispering anymore. You used to
[00:56:35] have to hide. You know, if you had something bad to say about Karen Bass, you had to say it quietly. You couldn't send a tweet out and that kind of stuff. And so there is an awakening and it's what would logically happen if your house burned down, >> right? this guy named Rob Henderson who writes about these things called luxury beliefs. Right. >> Right. Sure. >> It's it's all it's a it's a luxury to have a belief in doing X Y or Z until it
[00:56:59] shows up at your doorstep. It's the fact that you don't have to deal with it. You don't have to live with it. >> But eventually, if it does affect you personally, then you realize, wait a second, maybe this is not the right decision. It's it's like turning off the natural gas so that people can't have stoves. Now the the poorest of people can't afford to cook their food because it's so expensive to use electricity to
[00:57:17] to to heat your food. And you know the the luxury belief is oh it's better for the planet but for the majority of people it hurts them. Similarly once the Winnebago show up and your niece gets stabbed you realize maybe that wasn't the best policy or set of policies that I've been supporting. gas is six bucks a gallon and you drive a gardening truck and it's a Ford F250 extended cab and it's filled with 2,000 lbs worth of m,
[00:57:45] you know, equipment and you're getting seven miles to the gallon and you're on a gardener salary. Yeah, you're going to think about cheaper gas. You're not thinking about the coastal commission at that point. you just want the price of gas to go down because you're driving a pickup truck filled with gardening material. >> So, I work in Silicon Valley and a lot of what Silicon Valley is on the receiving end of at this moment is this
[00:58:12] extraordinary anti-tech, anti-AII sentiment that seems to be brewing and bubbling on both sides of the aisle. Democrats, Republicans, for different reasons are viewing the tech industry as kind of this evil. the oligarchs, the new kleptocrats, and so on. From where you sit, where is this headed? Is this a pronounced issue from from your view? I mean, maybe we're all very sensitive to it here in Silicon Valley, but is the generally anti-tech
[00:58:38] sentiment becoming louder, becoming more significant? How does this affect, you know, the next kind of cycle in politics, do you think? >> Well, I mean, we always need a villain, and so it's easy when it's World War II and we just hate Nazis, you know, and it's pretty straightforward. And then at a certain point it gets a little more complex, you know, when it's Vietnam or something like that. And then, you know,
[00:59:04] then at some point it's, you know, Monsanto and these big chemical companies. You know, we always sort of need somebody to protect my constituency from. So, you know, elect me and I'll protect you and your kids from this company that's dumping raw sewage into the river and so on and so forth. And now that we've sort of cycled through all that, I I I do think big tech is the last or not the last, but I mean the
[00:59:35] current boogeyman because we're we're not really dealing with big companies polluting anymore and we're not at war, you know, with this nation or that nation. So, it's it's an easy target. And you know, there's some skeletons in the closet about kids and time, screen time, and incentives to keep the kids on the screen and the damage that it may be causing the young kids who grew up staring at the screen and access to
[01:00:05] pornography and everything else. And then AI, you know, AI, that is the ultimate sort of pay no attention to the man behind the curtain. That's that's the evil wizard. And you let me and I'm going to reign these people in and I'm going to protect you from this potential harm that you know, forget about you. What about your kids? You want them growing up, you know, in this hellscape of AI, you know, being chased down the
[01:00:30] street by by um Elon Musk robots, you know. So, and also anything that America doesn't really fully understand makes it that much easier to pitch them and scare them, you Right. >> So, yeah, there's going to be that also with the sort of, you know, billionaires and Bernie Sanders and the war on wealth and that kind of stuff that these guys making all this money with all their, you know, cronies and all that. So, it's
[01:01:01] going to be a real easy target >> for them and and they'll go after whatever's an easy target. And, you know, in the 80s it was drug dealers, you know, pretty pretty straightforward. Uh, and it it shifts. It goes, you know, Germans and then it goes Vietnamese and then it goes drug dealers and it'll it'll just cartels, you know, it'll just move around and switch to whatever whatever's expedient for them. But I I
[01:01:27] would say Silicon Valley AI and big tech is is going to be the boogeyman of the future. >> Do you think that there's a real fear of job loss and a real understanding or experience to date? I know a lot of people in Hollywood talk about the creative process getting replaced and they're getting written out of the system with AI. Does that feel real to people in Hollywood? How much have you kind of looked at this broadly across
[01:01:54] other industries? Well, I've always been a big advocate of the trades with my background and I've always wanted kids and felt like we needed to have them get involved with the trades and it always drove me nuts like in the late 90s when they do all those campaigns about saving the music and save the music programs at school and I'd be like, &quot;What about shop class? Could someone save shop Glass?&quot; I
[01:02:18] mean, for Christ's sake, >> Malibu's burnt to the ground. Palisades are burnt to the ground. out that Dena has burned to the ground. Do you know how many electricians and plumbers and framers and roofers and drywallers and, you know, sheetrockers and tin knockers we're going to need just here right now? You know what I mean? And and and by the way, these guys ain't making 14 bucks an hour. They're they're making 300 bucks a
[01:02:39] day on the low end. There's good money and AI is not going to replace you in the in the near future. So, I've I'm been a huge, you know, kind of micro uh let's let's bring shop back. We need it um fan for a long time. Um you know, as far as AI goes, you know, everything technology just replaces things. >> Um you know, trucks replace wagons and and it just keeps going and going and going and and and you know, and it's like, well, should we
[01:03:15] keep the postal service? we have email. Like, no. And then when your argument is is we're going to put a bunch of people out of work if we close the mill down that no one needs, I'd go, put them out of work. We don't need it. That's life. That's the way it's going to go. You're artificially propping some industry up is not the way to go. So, yeah. And people are going to have to start considering this when they're looking at
[01:03:37] a profession. >> Yeah. This is also like an important principle that when technology creates leverage for a person in terms of how much they can create or do in an hour, it's not about replacing them. Then suddenly more will be done per hour by 10x or 100x. You know, it's not like fewer miles are being driven today because we got cars and replaced all the horses and wagons. We're driving far more miles by a,000x, 10,000x. and there
[01:04:05] all these new jobs and new industries that emerged around it, >> which I think is one of the fallacies on thinking about replacing old stuff. >> So, just to wrap up, I mean, maybe looking ahead to 28, we talked a lot about kind of things are headed longer term. Maybe how do you think the presidential elections going to play out in 28. How do you think things are going to go for the midterms? >> I mean, yeah, I'm I'm in the it's the
[01:04:25] economy stupid camp, although I'm not a Carville fan, but I think Trump's implementing a lot of things. I think people, you know, asked him two days in, &quot;How come eggs weren't cheaper?&quot; You know, stuff takes a minute, you know, takes a minute to get the fuel prices down, takes a minute for tariff revenues and things like that. I think Trump's fiscal stuff is going to kick in uh in the new year, and I think people are
[01:04:52] going to start reaping the benefits of that. And I think if that happens and gas is cheap and interest rates are down and homeownership is up and employment is up, then we're going to have four more years of some JD Vance or some sort of, you know, ver Trump 2.0 uh in in office. Um. >> Mhm. >> In terms of the midterms, they may kick in before we feel the full effects of the positive economic um products that that Trump is
[01:05:28] implementing. So that could go, you know, that could sort of go either way. But uh I think for the you know in terms of the presidential election I I feel like if Trump's stuff works like border closed, interest rates down, fuel cheap, foreign skirmishes either eliminated or you know drastically reduced. Um then yeah, someone will go let's let's see what let's see what four more years of this is like versus whatever Camala