[00:00:00] Adam, great to meet you. Thanks for being here on the podcast. Yeah, this is awesome for me. I'm a big fan. I grew up in LA. >> I listened to Loveline on K-Rock as a teenager pre- internet, like before the internet really took off. So, the content you and Dr. Drew put out on Loveline on drugs, sex, human psychology, this was stuff that didn't exist in our everyday lives and the discourse that you guys had. It was
[00:00:26] really kind of expansive for folks, at least in my cohort growing up in LA. We learned a lot. So, I want to thank you for that. I think you've pioneered an important corner of the world of content and media for a long time. So, thanks for that. You you've you've lived in LA for a long time, right? >> Yeah. Whole life. And so, you know, we thought this would be a great conversation to have on the one-year anniversary of the Palisades fire
[00:00:50] because we know that you've been an outspoken voice on the actions and the reactions to the Palisades fire. And while we're talking, we can also talk broadly about LA, about California, about the US, and where things are headed. >> Every business has an ambition. PayPal Open is the platform designed to help you grow into yours with access to business loans so you can expand and reach hundreds of millions of PayPal
[00:01:13] customers worldwide. And your customers can pay all the ways they want today with PayPal, Venmo, Pay Later, and all major cards so you can focus on the future. When you need a partner trusted by millions, there's one platform for all business. PayPal open. Grow today at paypalopen.com. >> Let's just do a quick recap. So, you know, the Palisades fire a year ago destroyed 6,837 structures, including about 5,000 homes,
[00:01:42] and as of November 2025, only one home has been rebuilt. Can you just give us your view on what's gone on since the fire? Why has this been such a slow process, and why have all of the promises that were made in the days and weeks after the fire forgotten about? Well, I'm uniquely qualified to address this subject because I live in Malibu and I was physically there on Sunset the morning the fire started. I literally walked out
[00:02:12] of the Equinox gym and I looked up Sunset Boulevard up into the mountains and I saw smoke. It was at 9:45 in the morning. I was like live there, was evacuated that night, but also have a background in construction, uh, building, permitting the city, regulation, that kind of stuff. So, it's it's a subject that I'm pretty passionate about. Um, and I I think it leads into a bigger conversation about Los Angeles and California and how come
[00:02:45] there's no affordable housing and how come when they build homeless units that are 400 square ft, they're $900,000 a unit and so on and so forth. So, it would be nice to use this as sort of a stepping stone to that conversation. Um, I've lived in California my whole life and I was in construction my whole life. Um, then when I got into show business later, all I did was use the show business money to fund more building projects.
[00:03:17] So, I never got away from being on a job site. It just happened to be my own home versus other people's homes. And of course, as an owner, builder was always having to deal with permits in the city and so forth. Um, I always knew it was super cumbersome and super expensive and actually did more harm than good. It it dissuaded a lot of people from building. A lot of people went, I don't want to deal with the city. I don't want to, you
[00:03:45] know, when you talk to fast food franchises, they'll go, I'll open a store in any city, but I'm not going to do Los Angeles. It's too much. and and it it becomes too much work. And so then either people bootleg things or they don't start their project at all because if you go through the normal channels which is engineering and then plan check and permitting and and approvals and all that it's not only really expensive but it's super time
[00:04:17] consuming and it basically convinces you to scrub the project. I was friends with Suzanne Summers and her husband Allan Hamill and they live I mean I'm still friends with Allan obviously Susan passed recently and they're a great couple and they love Malibu and um they used to come out and stay at the Malibu Inn and go out to dinner with me and uh they I they live in Palm Springs and I said uh well you love Malibu so much I don't get why you
[00:04:51] don't live in Malibu and they said oh we lived in Malibu, but a fire came in and took the house down. That was probably 20 years ago. >> And then when we wanted to rebuild, the Coastal Commission was so burdensome and there was so much regulation. And you know, these are people in their early ' 70s, late60s. They they don't have 11 years to rebuild a house. They're they're in the twilight part. They're in the they're in the retirement
[00:05:19] years. At a certain point, Allan Hamill just said, &quot;I couldn't deal with the Coastal Commission anymore. It's his property.&quot; He just wanted to rebuild a slightly different structure. You know, some talk about a carport and whether he needed closed parking, whatever. Eventually, they just packed up and they went to Palm Springs and they built a house there. So, that's essentially what it does. It dissuades a lot of people
[00:05:44] from rebuilding. I uh was displaced in the wee hours of the fire that night. Probably I found myself at two probably probably 4:00 a.m. just d walking into a random hotel in Burbank, California and trying to check in at 4 in the morning. I always remember it because the person behind the desk wasn't there and I asked the guy was buffing the floor and they said, &quot;She's at lunch.&quot; I thought it's 4 in
[00:06:16] the morning, meaning she's in the back room eating a sandwich, but you can wait a half hour. Anyway, we got checked in and the following morning, uh, I got up to come back to the studio, but the power was out. The wind had broken the telephone poles in my Burbank studio, and so the power was all out. So, I said, &quot;Well, should we run a best of or something, or should I just let's just sit down here in the hotel room?
[00:06:44] I'm gonna pull move this table, move that chair, and I'll just do an emergency broadcast from the hotel room. And in that broadcast pro the following morning after the fire, I said, &quot;Do not expect any rebuilding. You guys have no idea what the permitting process is. You have no idea how much red tape there is in regulation. Oh, they're going to talk some kind of story about expediting things and making things easier and
[00:07:09] faster and so on and so forth.&quot; It is not going to happen. This is Los Angeles. Karen Bass is the mayor. There will be nothing rebuilt. I guarantee you that. Good luck pulling a permit. And then, by the way, all you asses that vote Democrat every year, when you don't get your permit, maybe you should think about a different direction politically. And that's what I said 8 hours after the fire and it's been a year. And there's
[00:07:36] I'm in Malibu. There's nothing rebuilt in Malibu. >> Can you just help diagnose the source of the problem? Is it cronyism, corruption by some sort of, you know, union or labor group or contractors that are trying to up the cost of things? Is it an incompetency or is there a good motivation to save the planet and save the environment and slow things down? I mean, what is what is behind the overregulation and the red tape, which
[00:08:06] is not just inherent in LA? It's obviously a California problem and across the United States. I've got my view on this. I'd love to hear your view on where this is coming from. What's the origin of this? >> I don't think any of it is connected to unions or builders or contractors or engineers or any of that. I don't think they want any of it. I' I live in that world. I talk to these people, they roll their eyes, they hate it. It makes their
[00:08:30] job that much harder. So, I don't think it's a sort of New York mafia, we'll handle the garbage kind of situation. This is what I'm starting to learn is basically what people are calling gynofascism, which is way too many women in positions of power with an eye on safety. And it's safety Uber Alice. And the second thing is environment Uber Alice. And everything they do is under the umbrella of safety. and they think
[00:09:02] and they get a lot of applause and accul accolades for for making things safer, but what they don't realize is they grind things to a halt. So, you know, shutting schools down for CO may be the safest thing to do, but you damage kids. You cause a lot of collateral damage and it was never dangerous to healthy young kids in the first place. And you should have approached it much differently. But what did you do? You said, &quot;Shut the
[00:09:29] schools. shut the churches, shut the small businesses, mask up. You want full safety. And Barbara Ferrer, who's in charge of this, and and then there was there was Mayor Bass, although at the time it was uh Mayor Pete, I I'll think of his name in a second. The guy got shipped off to India, but mostly female city council who never stopped talking about safety. And yeah, it was Garcetti. >> Garcetti. Yeah. when they they hide
[00:10:01] behind the shield of safety because it makes them sound noble, but it's essentially like saying, &quot;Look, wouldn't your car be safer if it had a full NASCAR style roll cage in it?&quot; And you go, &quot;I guess.&quot; And what about a fire suppression system? Okay. And then how about a fuel cell with a bladder in it that had ballistic material in it versus a gas tank? Don't you think that'd be safe? Yeah, but the Prius is going to be
[00:10:28] $150,000 and no one can afford one now. >> Yeah, but it'd be safe. So, they hide behind this safety BS. It's mostly women who buy into it just like we scared the moms during co and then they make all the rules and the rules are always more and it's always safer and ba and also people sort of go along with it like they go look if a queson is 10 feet deep into the ground with number four rebar wouldn't it be safer to have it be 20
[00:11:04] feet in the ground with number six rebar? And it's like it would be but you just added 70% to the cost of the case and they that's how they think >> because their job the job of that individual sitting in that role whether it's a local state or federal government agency is to increase safety. Their job is not to think about the second and third order effects on the economy, on the affordability, on the ability to move
[00:11:30] quickly, on all the other factors that the individual citizen and the businesses in the community then have to deal with. That's never what they're tasked with. They have a very kind of simple uniform statement, which is, hey, make things safe. You're the regulatory body that oversees safety and oversees that we're not going to have a fire. This is sort of like, you know, I don't know if you followed this autonomous
[00:11:51] vehicle um stuff in California, but you know, for every million miles, autonomous vehicles reduce fatalities by like 95%. But if there's one autonomous vehicle that crashes once, everyone shuts that entire program down and says, &quot;Wait a second, we've got robots killing people. We can't let that happen. We have to stop robots from killing people.&quot; versus looking at the second order and third order effects which is significant
[00:12:16] reduction in overall fatalities, improvement in safety and so on. And that seems to be the organizational problem, right? >> Well, it's like when you have these fools like Bill Delasio saying, you know, if one person dies, that's one person too many. You know, whenever you hear that, you have to go, this person's a dope, and they shouldn't be in a leadership position because you can't be in a leadership position. You can't be a
[00:12:41] general in the army and you can't be the mayor of a town and announce if one person died. By the way, eight people died of fentanyl on the street in the time it took you to make that one pompous statement. So shut up and start being practical. >> Totally. I saw this in San Francisco when they gave away needles and then they created this sort of safe space for people to do fentinel and do drugs and shoot up by giving them free needles and
[00:13:04] saying you can do it here. So they could reduce the transmission of HIV and other diseases that are transmitted via needle. And it's like, well, what percentage of people do you think are now going to have a higher proclivity to do fentinel and do these drugs that's going to create so many more fatalities than the HIV ever would have? It's just very thoughtless in the overall view. And I do remember when the COVID
[00:13:25] pandemic first began in one of the first episodes we did of this show, I specifically talked about the lack of leadership in being able to synthesize multiple data streams, which is what a leader's job is, is to see the whole field and to make a decision on how do we win the game or how do we win the war versus listen to the one person that's the safety commissioner that says this is how you save lives. But thinking
[00:13:48] through the second and third order effects of what would happen to kids if you kept them out of school for six months, what would happen to the economy if you shut down in businesses and the the lack of synthesis, the lack of true leadership in these institutions is what makes things so difficult. >> Well, also the corruption of being in the pockets of the school board union and the teachers union. I mean, first
[00:14:08] off, they hire some dumb witch named Barbara Ferrer, who's not even a doctor, and she just makes the declaration to shut everything down because that's the safest thing. And then the school teachers who aren't heroes and don't feel like working decide they'd rather work from home than get dressed and going to school. And then they just tell Gavin Newsome, who they funnel their money to and get elected every year, do
[00:14:34] our bidding. And he's a coward. And so he does that and then at some point Relle Winsky of the CDC announces they should open schools, but that gets shut down really quickly by the school unions and then she announces that she was not speaking officially. That was just sort of her opinion off the record and you have a whole bunch of people controlled by teachers unions. >> Yeah. Well, so is there a solution?
[00:15:01] Well, first off, teachers unions and any unions shouldn't be in charge of electing people. They should be out of it completely. >> They shouldn't be able to give money to candidates is what you're saying. >> No, but by the way, the LA Times shouldn't announce an endorsement every year because now I don't believe you when you write the crappy article about the guy you didn't endorse and you write the glowing article about Camala Harris.
[00:15:27] You've made a fool of yourself by announcing what what it's it's like a it's like an umpire at a baseball game endorsing the LA the Dodgers, right? Don't make an announcement. Call balls and strikes. You know, New York Times, LA Times, call balls and strikes. Don't announce you're for the Diamondbacks. >> Right. Right. Before we get back to the unions, I just want to hit on this point on media. Why has media gone this way?
[00:15:54] is has this become this bias a reaction to technology? You know, I've got this view that it used to be that the media, the newspapers, the radio, the television stations and networks controlled access to information because they were the aggregators of information and then disseminators of that information to the population. When the internet came along, suddenly all of the information, pure data, just reporting
[00:16:17] became ubiquitous. You know, we see this all over the place. The weather is you can just look it up. You don't need to go to a news station to get the weather. You don't need to go to the news station to get the sports scores. You don't need to go to the news station to get all the events and happenings in the world. So, newspapers, magazines, television stations, networks had to become something else. Is that what happened?
[00:16:36] Did they evolve, do you think, in reaction to the internet? >> I think there's some of that. I think there's a here is the way I've sused it out and it'll be the next sort of subject that I think people will be talking about coming up. I brought up gynofascism earlier. So men and women are different and we don't seem to want to acknowledge that but but we are and the newsrooms were you know a very short period of time ago 15 20
[00:17:12] years ago it would be 12% female or the or the news outlets or CBS NBC you know New York Times whatever had a minority of women college campuses you know when they bring all the presidents of these colleges up in front of Congress, they're all women. It's not like they went, &quot;We need to talk to only women presidents of prestigious colleges.&quot; We just go, &quot;Give me the presidents.&quot; And every time there's a presser, I think
[00:17:40] this just uh happened at Brown with the shooting that it it happened in Congress with Harvard and so on and so forth. It's all it's all women in these positions. Now, women aren't flawed and there's nothing wrong with them. But if you said this, if you said, &quot;My son is going to play a little league game and we need an umpire and my son's going to be pitching.&quot; Who do you think could call balls and strikes with less emotion? The father or