[00:43:47] ground is it's production ready in startups who are using it in those categories. HR as well, accounting, marketing, all of that, all that blocking and tackling, all those chores are being done currently with these LLMs and they're doing it in production and they're doing it at scale. Just a quick second point here. Here's the J curve. And this is the question I think we'll get to in our next segment. When does
[00:44:09] this become a profitable business? If uh and you asked this of Sam in that famous clip on the BG2 podcast, RIP BG2, here you go. The LLM industry, Jacob, I just asked Claude to make this for me. Um, if you have 500 billion, I think you would agree it's probably going to be around that number, Brad, invested in all of this. And then >> more a lot more. >> Okay. So, five billion is an underestimate here. And then when do we
[00:44:34] actually see these large language model companies hit profitability in a in a calendar year? It took Tesla, Uber, Amazon, you know, decade plus in each of those cases >> to win back their investment. 10 billion. >> This is a really good chart. Here's the precise math on this. So, I am building a 1 gawatt data center in Arizona. >> Okay. >> When I green lit that project, I thought it was going to be a four or five
[00:44:58] billion investment. I was like, okay, whatever. Then it went to 10. Then it went to 15. Then it went to 20. And now it's upwards of $50 billion for the powered shell, for all the land, for all the permits, then for all the infrastructure, all the people, all of it. Okay. Sarah Frier said, I think it was about a year ago, maybe less than a year ago, that for them, every gigawatt is about 10 billion of annual revenue.
[00:45:22] So if you think about that J curve, Jason, really the way to think about it is look, energy equals intelligence. For every gigawatt that they're trying to spend, they have a fiveyear payback is roughly what it means just to get to break even. And then year six, seven, and eight will be where the profit is. Now, how do you shrink the Jaker? You have better silicon. We're going to see something from Jensen in a in a week or
[00:45:41] two that uses a bunch of the stuff that we partnered with him at Grocon on. There'll be other people. There'll be open source. So, all those things can shrink the depth and the surface area of that JC curve so that you can get out of it faster. But right now that that thing is roughly accurate which is it's about 50 billion per gigawatt and it's about a five to six year payback just to get into the money and then it's about 10
[00:46:06] billion a year and the technology industry has to do something to make this better. Could I though take a step back and give you just a different framing of all of this >> please? I think the big thing that we're debating is actually something we've seen in every other technology trend when it started to get some really meaningful traction. So in the first generation of the internet when you started to see e-commerce and all these
[00:46:33] other business models then in the second big wave of the internet around the move to mobile and the move to social and then now we're seeing this big wave around AI and I think what happens is in step one entrepreneurs are AB testing what it takes to raise money. Okay, that's step one. And I think what has happened is that at least some parts of the AI ecosystem have decided that this crazy scary doomerism is the best way to raise
[00:47:09] money where every now and then they come out and they say all the jobs will be destroyed anthropic you know Daario says that this thing is sentient and investors are like okay here's 10 billion here's 50 billion here's 100 billion but then the second step happens they get the money, they start to do the training, they start selling, and then the investors are like, &quot;Hey, where's the revenue?&quot; And so then they start
[00:47:33] selling everywhere. And then if you see in the Department of War example, all of a sudden you flip-flop, you become sort of an unserious dilotant like partner to the American government. They're like, &quot;We're going to boot you out. That's billions of revenue gone.&quot; And what happens? Those same investors that gave billions of dollars are like, &quot;Hey, hold on a second. That's absolutely not allowed. You need to conform and get
[00:47:53] back on track.&quot; And so what does Dario do? He flip-flops and he's like, &quot;Oh, I'm really sorry. I didn't mean to. Let's sort of make good.&quot; All of that to me is an industry that's still in its very early phases and still figuring out what its place in society is. So, what is the problem? The problem is the following two clips, and I'll just have Nick play these, and I'd love your guys' reaction. The one thing though that I
[00:48:17] think even now is underestimated by all actors in industry and including in Silicon Valley is how disruptive these technologies are. If you are going to disrupt the economic and therefore political power significantly of one party space, highly educated, often female voters who vote mostly Democrat and military and workingclass people who do not feel supported. and you feel like that's you believe that that's going to
[00:48:47] work out politically, you're in an insane asylum like that you cannot have a this technology disrupts humanity's trained largely democratic voters uh and and makes the economic power less and increases the power economic power of vocationally trained workingclass often male uh voters. and and and so these disruptions are going to disrupt every aspect of our society. And it to make this work, we have to come to an
[00:49:18] agreement of what it is we're going to do with the technology. How are we going to explain to people who are likely going to have less good and less interesting jobs from their perspective? And how is it that we are going and by the way on the military thing, these technologies are dangerous society. the only justification you could possibly have would be that if we don't do it, our adversaries and uh will do it and we
[00:49:45] will be subject to their rule of law. So you if you decouple this from the support of the military, you're going to have an enormous problem explaining to the American people why is it that we're absorbing the risk of disrupting the very fabric of our society, including the most powerful parts of our society. uh if it's not because it's about maintaining our ability to be American in the near term and and and long term.
[00:50:11] >> Now watch Sam's reaction. Fundamentally, our business and I think the business of every other model provider is going to look like selling tokens. But we see a future where intelligence is a utility like electricity or water and people buy it from us um on a meter and use it for whatever they want to use it for. So if you take those three messaging veins on a spectrum, one is we have a sentient super god. We're the only ones that can
[00:50:43] protect you from it, but you know your days are numbered. That's Daario. Alex, which is, hey, hold on a second. You can't have it both ways. You can't both say it on the one hand and then try to run the fabric of society and flip it. You need to be much more circumspect. And then Sam's, which is we want to sell tokens as a service. I think the point is that this industry right now that revenue traction if anything else has distracted people from
[00:51:07] actually getting on the same page and being much more methodical and much more reliable and trustworthy in explaining all of this and managing the expansion of this. And so what I would say is all of this fundraising gobbledegook has actually created this breathlessness that is not useful and isn't helping. And I would say there needs to be a lot more seriousness by these folks to actually run this business thoughtfully.
[00:51:33] You can't be a dilotant. You can't flip-flop. You can't pressure test AB test this kind of messaging in public. But I understand why you're doing it because the stakes are so high. You're playing this enormous poker game. But I think we need to do a better job of explaining all this to people because right now my end of this is look at this chart. This is now the result of those three messages. Here is where AI is. It
[00:51:56] is slightly above the Democratic party and an autocratic state. That's where AI is. ICE is more popular than AI. So >> not very popular. >> So to me, this is really at the crux of this where we are not really being honest. It would be much better if we said soberly, there's a lot of experimenting. This revenue is great, but we don't really know what's real. We're going to try to figure it out. We're going to work methodically.
[00:52:24] There's a lot of regulated industries. We're going to work within those. We're not going to flout the law and the rules. Lensure will still mean something. That's a way better, thoughtful, mature message. And what do you think? >> And rant. Great rant. Uh Brad, does the industry have a PR problem? Obviously, these recent surveys and especially comparing them to China where people see AI as abundance and like this incredible
[00:52:52] new technology they want to embrace. Here, people are scared. People are scared they're going to lose their job. People are scared about wealth u disparity. The rich get richer, the poor get poorer. There's a lot of fear here in the United States. What can our industry do to turn this around in terms of communication from the big companies? They don't seem to be communicating in any coordinated fashion and and they
[00:53:16] obviously are scaring the out of the public. >> Yeah. No, listen, I think it's uh I think it's a fair rant and a fair point. At the start of the industrial revolution at the start, you know, in the in the late 1800s, we had similar social responses to innovations that were occurring. We in fact had some violent clashes. We had demonstrations in the street. We had the entire robber baron movement you know so class warfare
[00:53:41] and worse is you know has come with other re you know kind of industrial changes of this magnitude so it doesn't surprise me that we have a lot of anxiety by people that they may lose their job and I think there are people out there who are kind of forecasting into the future in ways that are scary to you know the average person who's who's listening to this and I don't think that's particularly helpful so could we do a better job messaging no
[00:54:07] doubt about it. But if I just rewind to kind of where we started, I actually think the industry is um you know this is going to be a pivotal year for the industry to demonstrate right how this is really beneficial for humanity. I think we're going to be able to demonstrate that it's very beneficial from a health care perspective, from a drug discovery perspective, from an education perspective, etc. But we need
[00:54:31] to have a coordinated effort because Chimas right is deeply unpopular in the country. I happen to be on the optimistic side of this. 70% of the jobs that exist in the United States today did not exist 40 years ago. Right. Right. We've gone through the digital disruption that put a lot of people out of work. But the abundance and the and the recreation of new jobs, right, expanded the pie for for largely everyone. I think that will be the case
[00:54:59] here. If you listen to Daario, he says the concern is that the disruption occurs at a faster and and and and bigger rate and so that we can't keep up with kind of that replacement. I think that's another fine point. But if we just go back to where we started the conversation, which was are these good investments, right? Do >> That's not the conversation. No, of course they're good investments. Of course you're going to make money.
[00:55:20] >> No, no, no. That's not what it's about. >> That's not it. >> He asked the question. You made the argument. Jason asked the question, right? Are these companies simply selling do tokens at a loss? Right? And we moved into this. >> No, no, no. They're they're selling at a profit. I'm buying them and losing money. >> Right. >> In the 1849 gold rush, >> Anthropic and OpenAI and all of these model makers are selling the pick and
[00:55:45] shovel in the gold rush. >> I am buying it and I'm trying to pan for gold. But as with the gold rush, most of these companies will go out of business. And all I'm saying is if we are really circumspect and honest, there is still way more to figure out than has been figured out. This is not a solved problem. And I think we it would behoove everybody to just tell the truth about this. It would be way better to be
[00:56:08] honest. This is not figured out. >> I would say I think the data the cards that are being turned on the table move me in the exact opposite direction. >> Okay, let me get Sachs involved and then I'll give my take. Sax, you have any thoughts here? Well, I I have some thoughts on the question you asked about is the industry doing a good job with PR. I think the answer is clearly no. I think they are scaring the be Jesus out
[00:56:30] of the public and that's why the popularity is right down there with I don't know what was it Iran. I mean it's pretty I think we're a little more popular than than Iran. But um but look, >> Iran Iran's had 100 years to it up. So we've only had two. >> Yeah. Or 47 anyway. >> Yeah. Iran's had 47 years to We've only had two. But it is very much a US-specific problem. If you look at data, sentiment data across countries.
[00:56:55] What you'll see is that other countries are much more optimistic about AI than the US. I think the Stanford did a study on AI optimism. They simply asked the question, do you think AI is going to be more beneficial than harmful? Something like 80% of people in China said yes. In the US, it was in the 30s and it might be even lower now. And it's not just China and the US. you see across Asian countries, they tend to be pretty
[00:57:18] optimistic and then the US and Western Europe tend to be pretty pessimistic about it. I think that's less about the reality of AI and more about our media environment and who influences it. Obviously, you have the influence of Hollywood. It's created a lot of dystopian films about AI. You've got the fact that like we talked about these CEOs are doing a horrible job and they keep talking about putting everyone out
[00:57:40] of business. I mean, this has I think been not accidental. Well, I would say some of these CEOs are speaking this way because they're not very good at comms. I think others are actually doing it because they see a strategy there. You know, they're going for a regulatory capture. >> Such a good point. It's delusions of grandeur plus they're positioning their companies. Yeah. >> It could be for financing reasons like
[00:58:03] you've mentioned Schmoth. like they want to tap the stuff for fundraising, but also I think that some of it is to create a regulatory backlash that they can then control. You know, create a licensing scheme or permissioning scheme. And that's a big part of it, too. And then I think you just have the fact that in our media environment, the scare stories are the ones that get a lot more attention than the heartwarming
[00:58:29] stories. You know, if it if it bleeds, it leads type thing. So you can just see how unpopular it is for all of these reasons. >> You know, New York is about to outlaw medical and legal advice from AI chatbots, which by the way, that's probably the the most obviously >> valuable and highest ROI thing for for a consumer people the worst. Hurts poorest people the worst. But do you understand like if you're say a professional association
[00:58:55] that sees it as your job to protect your industry from disruption, you might actually want to spread FUD about AI in order to then seek those protections through your state legislature. >> Well, if you have companies that are fanning those flames and those companies are the ones in the industry, it's making your job even easier. >> Well, just think about the poorest person. they they can't afford a lawyer and they want to do their own research
[00:59:19] and they research the legal stuff to in order to fight an eviction or there are poor people who don't have a primary care doctor. They're not insured and they find a way to deal with, you know, some medical issue they're havinging. This is the greatest thing. It's the le it's a it levels the playing field for poor people or people without resources. So, this is the craziest legislation ever. New York City is a disgrace. I
[00:59:43] give them out of the week. No, the pro the problem is very specifically that these people that rely on these models to make a healthc care diagnosis or get a legal opinion to help improve their lives, the makers of those tools are telling everybody that they're about to bring death and destruction upon the economy and the world. So then the lawyers and the doctors are like, &quot;Well, then maybe we should slow this down.&quot;
[01:00:07] and they tell their lobbyists who then go to New York and then tell the New York legislators, hey, uh, these guys are like trying to wreak havoc and then they're like, oh yeah, well then maybe we should shut it down. That is the loop that's happening. >> That was the Bernie Sanders moment this week where he said we ought to have a moratorum on all data centers being built in the United States because AI is dangerous. That was his message and that