[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world. Freeberg's out saving the world, creating new potatoes or I don't know, quinoa, maybe some Brussels sprouts. I'm not sure what he's working on at this point. In his place, his personal favorite bestie. He always says that when I'm not here, I want Brad Gersonner in the seat. Welcome back. We haven't seen you on the pod since your shout out
[00:00:23] at the State of the Union. Take us behind the scenes for a brief moment here, Brad, of what it's like to get a shout out from POTUS at the state of Did you know it was coming? Did you choreograph to this thing? Did you Did you choreograph that or was that more spontaneous? >> I honestly had no idea it was coming. >> And in fact, I I found out after the fact that it wasn't in the speech and the president added it to the speech.
[00:00:45] So, I don't even think it was, you know, few days ago few days before going to happen. But we got an invite to the State of the Union and you know, listen, it's an institution. And this has happened every year for 250 years in the country. I've never been. I thought I did know he was going to talk about Trump accounts. So I figured if I'm ever going to go, that's the time to go. And I have to say, you know, I'm just a
[00:01:06] sucker for Democratic institutions and Democratic traditions. It it was an extraordinary night. Set aside, you know, the headlines about what Democrats did or Republicans did. Just the whether it's a Democrat president or Republican president that this happens every year. You have to go report on the State of the Union. So it was a it was a special night. did dinner ahead of time. We're in the chamber. The chamber, as you all
[00:01:26] know, is very small. And so, you know, just to your right was the first family and and Jared and Ivanka. And so, you know, we were there as to observe like everybody else. And wow, it was it was quite a moment. And >> I want to just say you did a great job because when you sent your heart out to all of America, >> I took it. I took it. I took it. I was like it out, >> but you kept it at the right angle. >> Right. Right.
[00:01:55] >> You had just gone up a little bit extra and out. >> Would have been no bueno. >> Those would be some super racist Trump accounts. >> Keep your protractor and your ruler out when you send your heart out. Okay. >> One final thing on it, Jason. You know, we're signing up over a 100,000 kids a day to these Trump accounts. Fantastic. We have millions of kids who've already claimed their account. We have nearly 30 million kids
[00:02:20] in America who are eligible for at least $250 if they just go claim their account. These things are going to go live on July 4th. And what it really showed, I think, the country, it accelerated after the State of the Union because the president, you know, really believes this is a way to get everybody main street America into the game of capitalism and get them all directly owning, you know, the great companies in
[00:02:40] America. So, it meant a lot to me in that regard that it highlights the importance of the program. So, I was deeply grateful to the president for not only making sure this happens, but the shout out is pretty cool. >> Good for you, bro. >> I have um an interesting uh idea for you. I'm sure it's come up already, but with this whole discussion of UBI, somebody said to me, &quot;Oh, you know, I really like these Trump accounts your
[00:03:00] friends did the the Invest America because it's like the start of UBI.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Well, that's not exactly the intention, but I get it.&quot; And with wealth disparity going on in the country, that has a lot of people concerned. What if there was a giving pledge around equities and people could opt into it? They don't have to, but if somebody like, I don't know, Larry and Sergey or Zuckerberg said, I want to
[00:03:24] pledge 5% of my shares to go into kids accounts over the next 20 years. What an amazing, beautiful thing that could be. And it would be incredibly material to get whatever it is, a tenth of a share, a hundredth of a share, a thousandth of a share of whatever company. Has that come up yet as an idea? I'm sure it's obvious, right? It's come up. Stay tuned. But yes, we're going to have some banger announcements
[00:03:47] as we head toward July 4th. >> All right, let's talk about the war in Iran. Obviously, there are much more important issues than financial ones. Life, death, the freedom of the people of Iran, but we're uniquely qualified, I think, to talk about the economic fallout, second order effects, first order effects. And there has been massive volatility over the last five trading days. Just talking about Brent crude oil and we'll we'll key the
[00:04:13] discussion off of that type of oil. It spiked to $84 on Friday. That was day seven of the war, 119 on Monday, day 10 dropped back down to 84. Jump backed up to 100 after three commercial ships were hit in the straight on Wednesday. Those ships, by the way, were not oil tankers. Uh they were carrying cargo. They were flagged as Thai Japanese and Marshall Islands. Brent crude currently at 99 when we're taping this. It'll be at
[00:04:38] something different by the time you listen to the pod, I'm sure. But it's uh quite a spike. And here's a second chart. This shows you the spikes over time. I was old enough to remember the oil shock of 1978. Uh we had to like get in line at the gas station based on your license plate number and uh you had to wait an hour or two to get gas. Gulf War obviously it hit $100 in 20 $26. 2008 we hit kind of a peak moment. $216
[00:05:04] in today's dollars. That was the peak oil discussion. Demand from China went off the charts. When Russia invaded Ukraine, we hit 115, which would be 133 in today's dollars. So, this is uh not new, but it is significant. And breaking news today, Iran's new Supreme Leader Mosh Taba says he's keeping the straight closed as a tool to pressure the enemy. Wall Street Journal on Thursday quoted a senior fellow at the Middle East
[00:05:33] Institute saying that reopening the strait will require ground troops. Poly market 27% chance that US forces enter Iran by the end of March and 57% by the end of the year. So the sharps over at poly market believe we will have boots on the ground. Let me stop there. Brad, your thoughts on what happens when oil hits this kind of number and we have this uncertainty of, hey, this could last, you know, two more weeks or it
[00:06:01] could last 6 months, it could last a year. Nobody seems to know and how it resolves. We just had a really interesting talk with Graham Allison. Um, how it resolves is also a major unknown. Your thoughts? >> Right. So first is obviously there are huge direct costs as oil prices go up right oil is a component of a lot of consumer you know and enterprise products and it also hurts consumer confidence enterprise confidence Goldman
[00:06:28] Sachs is out today with some analysis where they updated kind of the economic knock-on effects right so they raised their PCE inflation forecast from 2.1 to 2.9 right for the year so that's a huge jump right in terms of their expected you know PC inflation core PCE which excludes oil, okay, is they forecasted up uh from 2.2 to 2.4. So they're saying even if you excluded the direct price of oil, the knock-on effects is going to
[00:06:56] cause a little more inflation. They lowered their GDP forecast by 30 basis points for the year. And they also expect higher unemployment as a result of this for the year. All of that is weighing on the sentiment of the market. Remember, just a few months ago, the S&amp;P peaked at 24 times. Now we're at 21 times. But I think the market may be getting it a little bit wrong. Right? The Trump doctrine, you know, I tweeted
[00:07:17] about this last week. I think the Trump doctrine is far more pragmatic than the neocon doctrine. Right? I think we I think Trump has a very limited set of goals. He wants to destroy and degrade threats to America's national security interests. He doesn't want to spread democracy. So my suspicion is that these impacts are shorter duration, but right now the market's having a little bit of post-traumatic stress flashbacks to
[00:07:40] Afghanistan and Iraq and wondering if we might be wandering into a quagmire. >> All right. And just he may not um in terms of the doctrine, he has said he wants to see uh the people rise up there. So might be splitting hairs, but I think uh he might actually be for regime change. He says he wants the regime to change >> being equal. I don't think he minds if the people bring it to themselves. The question is whether the US is going to,
[00:08:05] you know, put boots on the ground and try to spread misonian democracy like like the Cheney doctrine was. And I think this is very different. >> Chimat, uh, your take on the economic impact and, you know, and any other uh, things you'd like to add about the war in Iran? I think the most important thing that I saw this week was I think President Trump was asked about the war and he said the war would be over very soon.
[00:08:32] What did the market do? The market literally took oil from 120 a barrel to 90 a barrel almost in you know a nancond. I think that that sort of tells you what everybody thinks. To the extent that the market really didn't believe it, oil would not have budged and if anything, it would have faded those comments and you probably would have seen oil stay at around 120 or even go slightly higher. So the fact that there was this
[00:09:04] reflexive move, I think is a belief by a lot of the sharps that there is no path to a sustained conflict. there's going to be a lot of chest bumping from the Iranians obviously because they need to save face and they will want to set up whoever comes next to have the most successful chance of governing. So my perspective is that was a trial balloon. I think it validated what everybody thought which is that this is going to
[00:09:28] be a shortrun thing. I agree with that. The downstream impact is, I think, correct what Brad said, which is it could show up in some short-term price spikes. But then on March 11th, you saw what Chris Wright did, which is the president activated a whole bunch of member countries in the IEA, and I think Chris released 172 million barrels. I think there's a coordinated release of about 400 million barrels of petroleum.
[00:09:56] That's going to dampen the effect of any price spike. On top of that, I think the estimate is there's probably another billion or so more barrels that one could release out of strategic stock piles. So, I think that both of these two things together kind of paint a picture that probably the worst is behind us. And I think now it's about finding the off-ramp. Sax, your thoughts? >> Well, I agree that we should try to find
[00:10:24] the off-ramp. I mean, I agree with what Brad and Jamas said about that. Look, we've degraded Iranian capabilities massively. Their army, navy, air force, all been destroyed. This is a good time to declare victory and get out. And that is clearly what the markets would like to see. You are seeing, however, a faction of of people, I'd say largely, but not exclusively in the Republican party, who want to escalate the war and
[00:10:50] who are calling for things like ground troops or regime change or they simply want the pounding of Iran to just keep going on and on. I saw an oped in the Wall Street Journal to that effect that we shouldn't try and find an offramp, we should just keep going with this. And I just want to lay out, I think, some of the risks of what an escalatory approach could entail. So, first of all, we're all seeing that the the straits for
[00:11:16] moves are closed right now. We don't want that to persist longer than it has to, but there are actually worse outcomes than that. So if the Iranians get hit, if their oil and gas infrastructure gets hit, they've already said they're going to engage in tit fortat retaliation against the Gulf States. And we saw there was recently um the Iranians blew up this giant oil depot in Oman. You saw some of those images. They could continue to target
[00:11:45] the oil and gas infrastructure across the Gulf States. And if that happens, it won't really matter if the straits get reopened because you won't be able to restart oil and gas production in the Middle East. So that would be, I think, a much worse outcome that could result from escalation. Furthermore, there's an even worse, I think, scenario from there, which is the region is very dependent on desalination plants. I think something like 70% of
[00:12:11] Riad gets their water from desalination. I think it's something like 100 million people on the Arabian Peninsula that get their water from Delaw. I mean, it's basically a desert, right? >> And those DEL plants are soft targets. You already saw there was I think there was one diesel plant in Iran that got hit and then it caused Iran again tit for tat to hit a delaw plant. I think it was in Kuwait. I could be off about
[00:12:34] that. >> But any event, if you see that type of destruction continue, you could literally render the Gulf almost uninhabitable. I you're not going to have enough water for 100 million people and human beings just cannot survive very long without water. So that would be a truly catastrophic scenario and we're talking about destroying the Gulf States economically and then also from a humanitarian perspective. So I think we
[00:13:00] have to take things like this into account when you hear people preaching for or advocating for escalation. You also have to I think consider the impacts on on Israel. I mean, it's hard to know exactly how much damage Israel is taking right now. There's a social media blackout, but what you're starting to hear trickle out is that Israel is getting hit harder than they've ever been hit before in their history. And
[00:13:21] we're only two weeks into this. If this war continues for weeks or months, then Israel could just be destroyed. There are very large parts of it. Now, I think Israel is a harder target than the Gulf States. Their infrastructure is more hardened. Also, they're further away. The Gulf States are vulnerable to drones and short-range missiles, whereas Israel is mainly vulnerable to long-range missiles. Nonetheless, at
[00:13:46] some point, their air defenses could become exhausted if it hasn't happened already. And Israel could get seriously destroyed. And then you have to worry about Israel escalating the war by contemplating using a nuclear weapon, which would truly be catastrophic. So there's a lot of scenarios here, a lot of really frightening scenarios about where escalation could lead. And even though the United States is a much more
[00:14:12] powerful country than Iran, they essentially have a dead man's switch over the economic fate of the Gulf States and even potentially beyond that, you know, the habitability of some of these these countries. So I do tend to think that this is a good time to declare victory. I think Brad, you're right that the president has never said that democracy promotion is one of his objectives. Yes, Jal, obviously everyone
[00:14:37] would welcome if the people rose up and chose a new regime, but that's not something that we've said we have to accomplish. And this would be a really good time to take stock of where we are and try, I think, to seek an off-ramp. And look, if escalation doesn't lead anywhere good, then you have to think about, well, how do you deescalate? And deescalation, I think, involves reaching some sort of ceasefire agreement or some
[00:15:02] sort of negotiated settlement with Iran. And we can get into more of what that looks like. But I think that's the big picture is that if escalation could lead in all these horrifying directions, then I think that's not the right approach. You have to look at deescalation. >> Jake, where are you on this? >> Complicated. I have my personal feelings on regime change. And since we don't have the information uh the MSAD and the
[00:15:25] CIA and Trump has, I do think Trump would only do this if he had a very high probability of success and an off-ramp. However, it's not looking good with the offramp right now and it could be quite chaotic. I think if the neocons get their way and the people on poly market are correct, the sharps who say 57% chance we'll have boots on the ground, I think this is kind of the end of Trump's second term. And if you were to put
[00:15:52] together the series of mistakes that he's made um and the administration's made, they're really at the heart of why people voted for him. You take starting a war like this specifically with Iran. That's what we were told was the reason to vote for President Trump. He was not going to take us down this path. He was not going to risk World War II. He was not going to risk a nuclear possibility as as Sax correctly points out. And now you have
[00:16:24] all the MAGA supporters from, you know, Tucker to MTG to Rogan, Matt Walsh, Megan Kelly, they are all up in arms about this is the end of MAGA and this is, you know, a massive betrayal. There's the 1B betrayal where Trump wouldn't release the Epstein files. We'll put that aside because I don't think that's as important as starting World War II. Um, and then obviously the insane unnecessary cruelty we talked about many times on this podcast of ICE
[00:16:50] agents which he has corrected by getting rid of Christy Gnome. So you start putting these things together. If this continues for another 6 months, it's basically going to result in the Democrats doing a clean sweep in the midterms. Here's the chart that I think, you know, the Republicans really need to look at at how misguided, you know, uh, this all is. This is the chart that should be absolutely terrifying. Nobody wanted this war or