[00:14:37] would welcome if the people rose up and chose a new regime, but that's not something that we've said we have to accomplish. And this would be a really good time to take stock of where we are and try, I think, to seek an off-ramp. And look, if escalation doesn't lead anywhere good, then you have to think about, well, how do you deescalate? And deescalation, I think, involves reaching some sort of ceasefire agreement or some
[00:15:02] sort of negotiated settlement with Iran. And we can get into more of what that looks like. But I think that's the big picture is that if escalation could lead in all these horrifying directions, then I think that's not the right approach. You have to look at deescalation. >> Jake, where are you on this? >> Complicated. I have my personal feelings on regime change. And since we don't have the information uh the MSAD and the
[00:15:25] CIA and Trump has, I do think Trump would only do this if he had a very high probability of success and an off-ramp. However, it's not looking good with the offramp right now and it could be quite chaotic. I think if the neocons get their way and the people on poly market are correct, the sharps who say 57% chance we'll have boots on the ground, I think this is kind of the end of Trump's second term. And if you were to put
[00:15:52] together the series of mistakes that he's made um and the administration's made, they're really at the heart of why people voted for him. You take starting a war like this specifically with Iran. That's what we were told was the reason to vote for President Trump. He was not going to take us down this path. He was not going to risk World War II. He was not going to risk a nuclear possibility as as Sax correctly points out. And now you have
[00:16:24] all the MAGA supporters from, you know, Tucker to MTG to Rogan, Matt Walsh, Megan Kelly, they are all up in arms about this is the end of MAGA and this is, you know, a massive betrayal. There's the 1B betrayal where Trump wouldn't release the Epstein files. We'll put that aside because I don't think that's as important as starting World War II. Um, and then obviously the insane unnecessary cruelty we talked about many times on this podcast of ICE
[00:16:50] agents which he has corrected by getting rid of Christy Gnome. So you start putting these things together. If this continues for another 6 months, it's basically going to result in the Democrats doing a clean sweep in the midterms. Here's the chart that I think, you know, the Republicans really need to look at at how misguided, you know, uh, this all is. This is the chart that should be absolutely terrifying. Nobody wanted this war or
[00:17:22] very few people wanted it besides the neocons and the people of Iran probably and the Israelis. But the chances of the Democrats sweeping now is up to 45%. This just happened. The Democrats are going to sweep, then they're going to win in 2028. and the entire agenda of uh MAGA and Trump's 2.0 will be gone. And then you look at just absolutely ignoring the working man. Inflation going up above 3% as you pointed out is
[00:17:51] a likelihood, Brad. Unemployment ticking up. Still very low, but it's ticked up 10%. Worth keeping an eye on. These foreign affairs things are the least important to the American people. It's very, very low on the list of priorities. And people are looking at Trump and what they believe is the enriching of his family and all these business deals. >> You're in the kitchen sinking it. >> It's literally what I was thinking.
[00:18:15] >> You're bringing everything at 1, two, three, four. Number one, doing the war that everybody said he should not do, include and that that was why we should vote for him. Number two, the Epstein files. Number three, the ICE cruelty. And number four, not working for the American working man who doesn't own equities. Those are four. 1 2 3 four. It's not a kitchen sink. This is not my personal feelings on this. This is my
[00:18:38] assessment of the situation. If he doesn't find an offer ramp quickly, they're going to lose both houses in the midterms. That's I think the thing Trump needs to really consider and I think he will consider I think he's going to find an offer. >> Right. That is the topic. The topic was are we going to find an offramp or not find an offramp in Iran? And I think Sax made the argument that there's danger that neocons and others are arguing that
[00:19:02] we expand, put boots on the ground. You're saying if he doesn't it'll be a disaster. Chimath and I both say he will. Right. And so the >> wait will what? >> He will find an off-ramp over you know in the nearer term because the Trump doctrine is not the neocon doctrine. As much as people want to talk about Iran Iran Iran. I think as I explained last week I think this is about China China. And you have to remember at the end of
[00:19:29] this month he has a pivotal 3 days with Xi Jinping in China. This is going to be an absolutely historic convening of the two superpowers that run the world. One which is us, we are the established and one which is China who wants to be reasscended. And I would bet dollars to donuts that there is going to be an enormous incentive for Xi to negotiate a grand bargain in those three days and do something historic for himself.
[00:20:06] And I think that the president will use that if he thinks that it creates leverage. I >> I think it's is a great insight. How does the straight of Hormuz open? If this war is dragging on and Israel, which seems to be the driving force in this, if Israel keeps it up with uh Iran, how do we ever get the straight open again? >> I think the offramp is that the United States uh you know, declares victory, does what Zach says and says, &quot;Listen,
[00:20:32] we degraded and we destroyed. That's what we came here to do. We did not come here for some experiment in in democracy. We wish the best to the Iranian people to do the things they need to do. And if Iran does not back down, if after that declaration, Iran continues to destroy cargo containers moving through the narrow straits, I think you're going to see Iran's neighbors in Israel and others get very involved as it pertains to Iran because
[00:20:58] it's in their interest. Listen, the United States produces 20 million barrels of oil a day and we consume 20 million barrels a day. This is a this is a modest problem for the United States. This is a massive problem for China. This is a massive problem for Asia. This is a massive problem for all of our friends in the Gulf who are trying to dodge Iranian missiles right now. So, there are a lot of people in the world
[00:21:18] who will take up arms to deal with the Iranians if the United States isn't there because we can take care of ourselves. Your position Brad just to confirm it is we are going to leave the war in the next 30 days and then if the straits are not open then China, India and all the Gulf uh countries that are impacted by it they will protect it. They will fight Iran. >> I think they'll put a lot of pressure on Iran not to continue firing missiles at
[00:21:44] their ships. Right? At the end of the day this is not just an American problem. Right? And let's be clear we're always involved in this part of the world. The only question is, are we going to have an active armada that's engaged in active military activities against Iran? And what I'm suggesting again, and listen, anytime you try to clean up a mess like this, there is risk. This is not a riskfree, you know,
[00:22:08] initiative by the United States, nor was Venezuela. But let me steal man the alternative. doing nothing and allowing Iran to procure, you know, the ingredients for a nuclear missile when they are set on the destruction of the United States and US interests. Doing nothing in Venezuela while the Monroe Doctrine is totally wrecked and we let our adversaries take up, you know, positions in in South America. Those
[00:22:32] also have risks, right? Those carry a lot of risks. And so we're we're weighing these two risks. Again, for me, I don't like the fact that we're engaged in military activities here. But I will tell you, I am very much on the side that if we're going to go protect American national security interest, you go in, you do the the degrading of their capability and you get out. And I think, you know, that's what I hear out of the
[00:22:55] president. >> Jim, you had a followup. >> All roads lead to China. I think that there you're going to see Xi offer up a grand bargain. And I think it's up to the president to decide whether he wants to take it and see what he wants to add to it to get something done. But I just don't see them meeting and coming out with nothing. I think I see them going in and coming out with something that's historic. And I think that all of this Venezuela
[00:23:20] and Iran together is all about China. >> Let me just say one thing as to that, Chimath. I think because I think the point is absolutely spoton, right? Probably the single greatest takeaway for us from an investment perspective at the start of this war was that the Chinese, right, didn't take up arms on behalf of Iran aren't defending Iran and they didn't cancel the summit with the president, right? The very fact that because they
[00:23:48] need him, they need the oil. 20% of their entire domestic consumption is oil from Venezuela and Iran. 20%. But it's not 20%. Because it's literally 100% of anything that's feed stock, anything that's transport, cars, buses, planes. They are in an enormous world of hurt. Now, they have a strategic petroleum reserve as well, and it's quite robust, but it's not robust enough to sustain five or 6 months of this. It's not that
[00:24:18] robust. So, at the end of the day, who is going to be hurting the most? It is China. And so if you play this game theory out, the reason he kept it is because now he needs a summit even more. Could you imagine if the president canled, that would be a disaster for the Chinese. So the fact that it's still on the books, if I was Xi, I'd be like, how do I negotiate and help find the off-ramp? How do I end up fixing this faster? All
[00:24:46] right, remember you have 25% unemployment of young men inside of China. 25% today. What do you think it goes to in five months with no oil? >> It's in the >> That's the unemployment rate you should be focused on, Jason. >> Oh, the China issue is a separate one just to >> It's not separate. >> No, no, that was separate from my point is my point. I I was bringing up a different point. >> Yeah, your kitchen sink didn't include
[00:25:12] the Chinese. I get that. I'm just adding to your kitchen sink. >> I didn't have a kitchen sink. I have four very salient points. All right, Sax, I'll give you the final word here. Well, look, that was a bit of a a broadside, Jay Cal, where you kind of did kitchen sink it. But look, here here's the part I'll agree with you about, which is it doesn't take a political genius to understand that long wars are unpopular.
[00:25:34] It will hurt the Republicans in the midterms or 28 if this does turn into a long war. Fortunately, I think the president understands that his political instincts are impeccable and he's always favored short, decisive, swift actions, military actions, whether it was Midnight Hammer, whether it was the Maduro raid. I think that is his inclination and preference. And I think we are pretty much at or close to a point where the president's
[00:26:01] going to have to decide on next steps. I think he's indicated that we have completed our objectives and I think it's just important that we don't let this neocon wing of the party try to expand the objectives or aims of the war because frankly they've always been wrong about everything. I mean these are people who never wanted to get out of Iraq and Afghanistan would still be there after 20 years if they had their
[00:26:26] choice. So, I think it's just important to not listen to those people. And look, it's not just one op-ed in the Wall Street Journal. The Wall Street Journal is kind of the tip of the spear representing that whole neocon establishment. And I think it's just important that this is the time to frankly ignore those voices and let the president do what I think his political instincts are telling him to do, which is to wrap this thing up.
[00:26:49] >> I'm in strong agreement, and it is my hope, too, that he wraps it up quickly and that we don't have any more loss of life. All right. We'll keep discussing uh this ongoing breaking news story in the coming weeks. But back to our zone of excellence, AI and tech, OpenAI and Anthropic are scaling revenue and costs faster than we've ever seen in the history of well business the world. Revenue at these two companies growing
[00:27:16] gosh like unprecedented levels. Here are the reports and I believe your investors in both these companies. Brad Anthropic hit a $14 billion run rate last month, February. That means they have grown revenue from 1 billion uh to 14 billion in 14 months. They have 12x year-over-year. They're valued at a meager 380 billion uh last month. This feels like a bargain given the growth. Openai ended 2025 at 20 billion annualized run rate and
[00:27:47] they've grown revenue from 2 billion to 20 billion in 24 months. They're valued at 840 billion last month. Uh, and man, it looks like Sam Alman has Daario in the rearview mirror. He could get lapped any moment. Lots of debate. >> Where did you find this? What the hell is this? >> That one? I made that. This is Daario closing in. >> What is that? A velociraptor? What is that? >> It's the famous scene from Jurassic
[00:28:14] Park. >> Oh, wow. But I mean, I don't think anybody expected Daario to be coming around the bend this fast, but he's right behind apparently and they're winning obviously the businessto business side of the business. The J curve on these companies is insane. Uh 250, 500 billion. Who knows what's get gets invested before these companies reach profitability, Brad, but you're invested in these two companies. >> Yeah.
[00:28:38] >> Unless you sold when uh Sam Wman told you he would buy his shares back on the famous BG2 episode. I don't think you sold it. >> I bought a lot more since then, Jason. I bought a lot more. >> Fantastic. That's important information for us to have. Quick question for you. Number one, what's a better buy here? >> Yeah. >> Uh, Anthropic at 380, OpenAI at 840. Uh, and then I think people want to know if these companies are going to go public.
[00:29:00] What you, if you think they should go public, what is the chance of that happening? Take those questions however you like. >> Well, I mean, listen, you know, Love Your Children equally. They're both incredible companies. Anthropic unquestionably has a lot of financial momentum, you know, and OpenAI is seeing a lot of momentum themselves, right? But the single most important question this year, right, was would AI revenue show
[00:29:23] up? And just 60 days ago, 90 days ago, there was tremendous skepticism. No way all of these infrastructure investments were going to pay off. There's no incremental revenue coming out of AI, including many of our friends. But in February, we had in January and February, we really had kind of a nuclear moment, right? The splitting of the atom moment. I mean, we had a $6 billion month out of Enthropic in February, right? What widely reported.
[00:29:51] Okay, let that set in for a second, right? $6 billion in a month, and it was only a 28 day month. Okay, that's more revenue than the annual revenue of data bricks and snowflake that are two of the greatest software companies of all time after 12 years, right? They could do in the first four or five months of this year the total revenue of SpaceX this year. >> What is driving that? Just explain to the audience what's driving it. Is it
[00:30:16] token use? Is it clawed subscriptions? >> We crossed a threshold with Opus 4.6, right? And we saw it again with chat GBT 5.4 before where the models and the agents on top of them whether it's cloud codeex chatbt they're no longer competing with IT budgets they're now augmenting labor they're competing with labor budgets you could not possibly have a $6 billion month it is impossible to do that by displacing IT budgets
[00:30:44] millions of other companies across America say oh my god let's spin up these agents and have them do things for us and we're willing to pay for it because the product of that effort is worth the money to And the revenue and the usage momentum, I will tell you in the month of March continues and it only accelerates from here. As Kevin Wild has said, the models in the agents are the dumbest today they will ever be. Right?
[00:31:08] We're in the early innings of compute and algorithmic uh capability. And so, you know, like that to me is the observation at this moment. Should they go public? I've said yes, they should go public for several reasons. There's tons of institutional demand. They need cheap access to money to continue to build out uh the compute they need to support. They they there is more compute constraint in these businesses this very
[00:31:31] day than they've had any time in the last 3 years. So they need access to the capital. And then finally, I think you have to have the retail investor in the game. These are two of the most important companies in the history of capitalism in the history of America. It's destabilizing not to have them public. You know, Jensen said last week that he expected the 40 billion he recently invested in these two companies