[00:29:23] up? And just 60 days ago, 90 days ago, there was tremendous skepticism. No way all of these infrastructure investments were going to pay off. There's no incremental revenue coming out of AI, including many of our friends. But in February, we had in January and February, we really had kind of a nuclear moment, right? The splitting of the atom moment. I mean, we had a $6 billion month out of Enthropic in February, right? What widely reported.
[00:29:51] Okay, let that set in for a second, right? $6 billion in a month, and it was only a 28 day month. Okay, that's more revenue than the annual revenue of data bricks and snowflake that are two of the greatest software companies of all time after 12 years, right? They could do in the first four or five months of this year the total revenue of SpaceX this year. >> What is driving that? Just explain to the audience what's driving it. Is it
[00:30:16] token use? Is it clawed subscriptions? >> We crossed a threshold with Opus 4.6, right? And we saw it again with chat GBT 5.4 before where the models and the agents on top of them whether it's cloud codeex chatbt they're no longer competing with IT budgets they're now augmenting labor they're competing with labor budgets you could not possibly have a $6 billion month it is impossible to do that by displacing IT budgets
[00:30:44] millions of other companies across America say oh my god let's spin up these agents and have them do things for us and we're willing to pay for it because the product of that effort is worth the money to And the revenue and the usage momentum, I will tell you in the month of March continues and it only accelerates from here. As Kevin Wild has said, the models in the agents are the dumbest today they will ever be. Right?
[00:31:08] We're in the early innings of compute and algorithmic uh capability. And so, you know, like that to me is the observation at this moment. Should they go public? I've said yes, they should go public for several reasons. There's tons of institutional demand. They need cheap access to money to continue to build out uh the compute they need to support. They they there is more compute constraint in these businesses this very
[00:31:31] day than they've had any time in the last 3 years. So they need access to the capital. And then finally, I think you have to have the retail investor in the game. These are two of the most important companies in the history of capitalism in the history of America. It's destabilizing not to have them public. You know, Jensen said last week that he expected the 40 billion he recently invested in these two companies
[00:31:52] would be his last money in because they were both going to go public. He thought they he said they would both go public this year. I think that, you know, they're they're preparing and heading down that path, you know, and and listen, I want to get some of these shares in the accounts of all these kids that were opening up because they're really really important companies to the future of the American economy. Shim,
[00:32:13] you had some insight into the quality, durability of this revenue. There's not a single good example that we can find of sustained positive margin expansion and impact of AI inside of a true corporate enterprise that is not right now a small test. There's not. >> So where does six billion come from? because everybody has to show up to their board and have an AI checkbox and everybody is thousands and thousands of
[00:32:46] companies. And when you have tens of thousands of companies as customers paying $200 plus a month, it's not that hard to show up with that kind of revenue. The real question is the following. If you take you use the data bricks and snowflake example, if you look at the companies that use that software, those companies generate enormous revenues and enormous margins and these products are in critical production
[00:33:16] workflows that underly those revenues and profits. That is just not true with AI today. We have all kinds of claims, but we are still experimenting. Why are we experimenting? Because we know it's important, but we don't yet really know what to do. You can't just slot this in to a critical workflow in healthcare and all of a sudden show up where if you make a misdiagnosis or if you make a a misccharacterization of a
[00:33:44] procedure, you can get fined and go to jail. The companies that are in healthcare don't do that. If you're in financial services and you make a mistake about somebody's portfolio or you make a misallocation and you point to a model, you will get sued and you will be in trouble. None of these things have transitioned from it's interesting, it's experimental to it's the core critical operational workflow. >> Just interesting.
[00:34:10] >> There will be a transition in revenue quality when that happens. A great example of this is Amazon. Why does Amazon issue an edict that says you cannot use this stuff inside of AWS unless a human now reviews and approves it? Because what happened? They had three or four sev one faults from a bunch of code that was written by agents that brought down AWS. Now look, I've told you I love AWS for one reason, because it's hyper reliable. I hate AWS
[00:34:40] for the same reason that hyper reliability comes at enormous cost. I pay it, but I pay it to never have a SE one. The reason they have 12 9s of accuracy is because it's humans and deterministic code that never fails. It doesn't mean that two companies can't get to 20, 30, 40 billion of revenue. What it means is we have to be honest. This is an industry that's early. We are all figuring it out. There's a lot of
[00:35:04] test budgets that are going at it. It will slowly and methodically emerge into production. But let's not oversell what this moment is. >> Okay, Brad, I want to give you a well- constructed question here to respond and then Sax, we'll go to you if you have some input. Of the 20 billion, how much of it do you think is experimental? What percentage is experimental versus production? Bas strip out the cons the consumer spending for because like you
[00:35:32] know that's half of it, right? >> Okay, so let's I'll I'll put aside the consu S. Great idea. We'll put the consumer subscriptions aside. they're obviously getting value or they wouldn't be subscribing, but it's like Netflix. >> And by the way, for that where it can be extremely faulty and there's no SLA that you're giving, >> it's a phenomenal. These are phenomenal products. >> Yes. For 20 bucks a month, well worth
[00:35:52] it. And consumers have decided it's worth it. So, I think we're in agreement there. >> And also for the individual engineer, of which I suspect there's a few million, who get to pay $200 a month and have their company subsidize it. The company knows that these costs are being incurred, but there is no tick and tying at the end of it where then you review the code in a different way because you you you're worried that there's
[00:36:13] hallucinations as Amazon just demonstrated. >> Yeah, there's a story in the there's a story in the FT about Amazon having some blast radius from some computerenerated AI and they're putting controls in place. We'll put that in the show notes. Brad, let's get to the specific question I asked. of the tens of billions of dollars in revenue between the two companies that's not consumer, what percentage do you think is production
[00:36:36] quality versus experimental to Chimat's point? >> Yeah, I mean listen and I've been, you know, I coined the phrase experimental run rate revenue, right, versus annual recurring revenue, right? Like I think it's I think Chimas's point is a really important one. As an investor, I have to discern what's repeating, right? What's recurring and what's not. What I would suggest is of course there's a lot of experimentation because these things
[00:36:58] haven't been around that long. But I suspect right that Palunteer, the US government, the US military, Nvidia, and a lot of other major enterprises would argue they've gone full production. In fact, it's existential to the wartime effort going on in Iran right now. That doesn't sound to me like experimental as much as it sounds like production capability. And I will tell you what will prove this one way or the other is
[00:37:27] in the month of March, do revenues continue and go up? Right? Do they experimentation go on forever? That's not true. That's not true. The experimentation goes on forever. That sounds like recurring. >> We've scratched the surface of of the number of companies that even know how to adopt AI. So these numbers will go to the stratosphere. I'm not debating that. >> Okay. >> Look, I'm on the same side of the bed as
[00:37:49] you are. I want these numbers to keep going to the moon. I'm just being much more circumspect and honest with myself to say I see it on the ground. I sit on top of these models. I am paying these models millions of dollars a year. I am. >> Yeah. >> And what I'm telling you is my revenues don't go up faster than their revenues. I'm consuming more tokens every single day. Do I get more economic output? I am not. And I would say that my team is at
[00:38:14] the leading edge. And so I suspect a Fortune 1000 company is steps behind my team. And if I am spending triple every 3 months and not seeing my revenues tripling, I suspect these other companies are in a similar situation. >> I'd finalize it. But ask it on Friday when you're with Michael Dell because I've had this conversation recently with Michael Dell and Michael said a year ago companies weren't seeing ROI. Today
[00:38:37] they're seeing very big ROI in their AI investments. But I think that's the question on the table. But >> what companies? Which companies? Of course the second of course is seeing an ROI. Sachs were agreeing. This is experimental in large part and this is a new tool. So by definition you have to experiment before you put it in production. What's your take on this grand debate? How much of this revenue is experimental versus
[00:39:04] real? >> Well look when you're talking about enterprise revenue, what you're really talking about is coding assistance. That's been the breakout use case. It's really the first big breakout use case on the enterprise side. The consumer side's been more of like you know research and writing that kind of stuff the chat bots but enterprise has all been about coding assistance. My sense is that the demand for code is very
[00:39:27] scalable. Software engineers has always been an area of the economy where companies have never been able to hire enough. Even in Silicon Valley which is the most attractive place for software engineers to work. We've never been able to recruit and attract enough of them. The rate limiting factor on the progress of every startup I've ever invested in is not having enough engineers to code up the product roadmap. And then you
[00:39:50] look at the rest of the economy, the Fortune 500 and so forth and so on. They have hardly been able to recruit software engineers at all because they've all gone to Silicon Valley. So I think you're dealing with a part of the economy where there's always been a massive supply shortage. And I don't know what the natural limit on that is, but my sense is that there's a tremendous latent demand for the ability to generate code in large quantities,
[00:40:16] create new products. You know, as the cost of code goes down, as the coding assistants get better, you can code up new types of products. And then, of course, it's going to lead to agents, which is another way of basically using the code that gets generated. So, my sense is that this could be very scalable. I don't know where it it taps out exactly. Where I think Chimatha is right is that I think there is a change
[00:40:40] management aspect to this in Fortune 500 companies for example and they haven't really wrapped their heads around how exactly they're going to use this. There's a McKenzie study that showed that a lot of these pilot projects in Fortune 500 companies were experimental. A lot of them were proving not to be successful. So I do think like as you go beyond coding into you know company transformation things like that it
[00:41:04] becomes a little bit more speculative. That's not to say it won't happen. I think it will happen. I'm actually I'm bullish. But I do think that >> we're still waiting to see what the breakout use cases beyond coding will be. Probably agents will be the next big one. But I think Brad's right that that's big enough to see, you know, this scale for a while because, you know, the thing about the thing about code is
[00:41:25] you're paying for code on a metered basis right now. You're paying per token, which is kind of an amazing deal for companies, right? Because before they had to go through this recruiting process to find engineers, source them, vet them, you know, keep them happy, give them all the perks, the kind bars, all, you know, uh, and so to be able to buy code on a metered basis as the cost per token keeps going down.
[00:41:51] >> It's kind of metered before. It was just metered on people. Now, now to your point, it's it's metered. It's metered in a different way, but it's still metered. >> Yeah. And let me just, you know, you use this term labor displacement, Brad. That's like the one part where I might disagree with you is because there was such a shortage. >> Yeah. >> Of software engineers. I think when people hear the word labor or term labor
[00:42:13] displacement, they might >> start to think that 6 billion of incremental revenue means 6 billion of layoffs. No. >> And I don't think it does. And and the way to to thread that needle is the fact that we were artificially constrained in the number of software engineers and how they could be used and how rapidly they could be acquired and all that kind of stuff. So to be able to now turn that on like electricity and that's kind of what
[00:42:37] we're talking about. >> Exactly. >> Is just such a huge >> game changer and unlock for the whole economy. >> Yes. >> And that's what I think is really exciting about it. >> It's augmenting it's augmenting human labor, right? We're not at a place yet where it's displacing. And this is the definition of productivity gains. >> I'm going to make just uh two quick points here. The place to look for this actually moving from experimental into
[00:43:00] production is not not at big companies. Big companies are actively resisting this. Management in big companies will resist it because it means lowering headcount and it means the person who implements it might actually implement themselves out of a job. So that is the natural resistance you'll see in big companies. That's not where to look for adoption of new tech. >> That's not why it's happening. That's not why
[00:43:19] >> let me finish and then you can you can counter it. >> Startups are the place to look at this and that's where I am on the ground. And what I'm seeing there is that startups are using this in production for their legal work for their marketing for SDRs uh for their accounting reviewing legal documents. This is all uh work that would normally they would hire consultants for outsource uh or make hires for. And what I'm seeing on the
[00:43:47] ground is it's production ready in startups who are using it in those categories. HR as well, accounting, marketing, all of that, all that blocking and tackling, all those chores are being done currently with these LLMs and they're doing it in production and they're doing it at scale. Just a quick second point here. Here's the J curve. And this is the question I think we'll get to in our next segment. When does
[00:44:09] this become a profitable business? If uh and you asked this of Sam in that famous clip on the BG2 podcast, RIP BG2, here you go. The LLM industry, Jacob, I just asked Claude to make this for me. Um, if you have 500 billion, I think you would agree it's probably going to be around that number, Brad, invested in all of this. And then >> more a lot more. >> Okay. So, five billion is an underestimate here. And then when do we
[00:44:34] actually see these large language model companies hit profitability in a in a calendar year? It took Tesla, Uber, Amazon, you know, decade plus in each of those cases >> to win back their investment. 10 billion. >> This is a really good chart. Here's the precise math on this. So, I am building a 1 gawatt data center in Arizona. >> Okay. >> When I green lit that project, I thought it was going to be a four or five
[00:44:58] billion investment. I was like, okay, whatever. Then it went to 10. Then it went to 15. Then it went to 20. And now it's upwards of $50 billion for the powered shell, for all the land, for all the permits, then for all the infrastructure, all the people, all of it. Okay. Sarah Frier said, I think it was about a year ago, maybe less than a year ago, that for them, every gigawatt is about 10 billion of annual revenue.
[00:45:22] So if you think about that J curve, Jason, really the way to think about it is look, energy equals intelligence. For every gigawatt that they're trying to spend, they have a fiveyear payback is roughly what it means just to get to break even. And then year six, seven, and eight will be where the profit is. Now, how do you shrink the Jaker? You have better silicon. We're going to see something from Jensen in a in a week or
[00:45:41] two that uses a bunch of the stuff that we partnered with him at Grocon on. There'll be other people. There'll be open source. So, all those things can shrink the depth and the surface area of that JC curve so that you can get out of it faster. But right now that that thing is roughly accurate which is it's about 50 billion per gigawatt and it's about a five to six year payback just to get into the money and then it's about 10