[00:00:00] All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world, the all-in podcast. With me again, the core 4, the original quartet, David Sachs, David Friedberg, Chimath Polyhapatia. I'm Jason Calakanis, and we have a very full docket today. All right, topic one, gentlemen. AI acceleration. It was a big week for AI. New study published on Monday, February 9th, in the HBR, Harvard Business Review, suggesting that
[00:00:31] AI tools intensify work but do not reduce it. Two UC Berkeley researchers spent eight months embedded at a 200 person tech company. So, this is one company's experience. What they found, employees who use AI worked at a faster pace, took a broader scope of tasks, and extended work into more hours of the day. workers reported feeling more productive, but they also felt a little more stress and burnout. Saxs, your your
[00:00:59] hot take here, your quick take on this study. Obviously, it's just uh one company, but it does track, I think, some of my experiences. >> All right. Well, a few points here. Number one, as you may recall on the prediction show for this year, my most contrarian belief is that AI would increase demand for knowledge workers, not put them out of business. And I think you see in this UC Berkeley study, the reason why that might be the case is
[00:01:24] because the employees who use these tools, like you said, they worked faster. They took on a broader scope of task. They actually ended up working more hours in the day. So they did more work, not less, and even more effort rather than less. Not because they were required to, but just because they were more motivated. And I think they were more motivated because their work was getting upleveled, right? They're kind
[00:01:46] of able to offload uh more menial tasks to AI and it made their work more purposeful and meaningful. So I think we're kind of moving from what some people I think maybe Jensen has called um taskbased jobs to purpose-based jobs. And I think a key skill of employees is going to be the ability to structure work for themselves and their AI agents. And the employees who can do that are going to be far more productive than those who
[00:02:15] can't. That kind of brings me to point number two, which is that I think there's a tremendous opportunity this year for employees who are early adopters of these tools, who are, you know, so-called AI natives, to demonstrate their value to their employers. They're going to be able to get a lot more done. They're going to appear to have superpowers. They're going to be the people in meetings who can take an assignment that would have
[00:02:40] taken days before and get it done in 2 hours. whether it's a presentation or a spreadsheet, people are going to be shocked at how quickly they can get these things done because they're going to be fasile at working with AI. So, I think there's a big opportunity there. And there was an article that went viral this week by Matt Schumer called something big is happening where he talked about this career opportunity
[00:03:00] that's going to be available to kind of AI early adopters. And I think that brings me to my third point, which is I think that you're going to see massive enterprise adoption of AI, not just chat bots, but agents this year. But I think it's going to be driven by the bottom up. It's going to be driven by these early adopter employees coming in to their workplaces, bringing in these kind of consumerized AI tools, start using
[00:03:22] them at work as opposed to top- down initiatives. I think there's a lot of top- down company transformation initiatives that are happening in large enterprises where the CEO has tasked a team with figuring out how to use AI, how to transform their business with AI. Those initiatives are going to take months. They're going to be studying what tools they should use. They're going to be doing RFPs. And I think it's
[00:03:44] ultimately going to be very slow. And while those things are trudging along, I think there's going to be these early adopter employees who just make the transformation of Feta Comple by again bringing these tools into the workplace from the bottom up. So, I think in the same way that you saw consumerized SAS tools spread from the bottom up in enterprises, I think you're going to see consumerized AI tools spread from the
[00:04:04] bottom up in enterprises. And I think it'll ultimately be one of the big themes this year. >> Couldn't concur or agree more. Nick, throw up that tweet I did. I I did a tweet and it got 2 million views. Basically, I said, listen, if you got laid off by Amazon or Microsoft over the last two years, just learn OpenClaw and automate your previous job. Show you know how to use these tools. go back to your boss and say, &quot;Hey, I want to come
[00:04:24] back and automate everything or go to startups.&quot; Every startup I know is hiring for this position, which is somebody who knows how to build and manage agents. There is no job wreck for this yet or a title. We should come up with what this person does, but it it used to be called prompt engineer. It's no longer just prompt engineering. It's managing and educating and offloading work to an agent and then making sure
[00:04:49] they're actually doing it. And right now it feels like the people in my organization have four of them who are focused on this out of 20. I would say that their leverage is between 10 and 20x the other 16. So now I'm going down the slope of employees from you know most technical you know to least and trying to get each one of them to adopt and create an agent for them. We'll pro it will probably take six months but
[00:05:14] when we do I think our leverage versus a competing firm is going to be 10x. As an example, in the podcasting space, Sax, we now have it going through podcasts looking for the best moments or you can just give it a moment and it will clip the clip for you and put it in the Google Drive. So imagine we were all in, I don't know, our little group chat and you said, &quot;Oh, from the last episode, can you get me a clip of minute 3 to
[00:05:39] minute 6?&quot; And then it's just on your iPhone. It's just in the group chat. Boom. Nobody has to go find it. It just clips it. That's the kind of work it's doing. And then we have it looking at our YouTube stats. We have it looking at our Instagram or Tik Tok stats and then trying to tell us which clips are going the most viral, which ones have the most comments and then giving us strategies to how to make them go more viral. It's
[00:06:01] really weird because it's coming up with really great suggestions and taking eliminating all the reporting work that knowledge workers do. Chimat, you have a take on this? I know you've deployed the software factory which is I think um you know aligned with obviously this revolution happening in real time. Last couple of weeks have been pretty big with claude opus 4.6 coming out uh chat GPT codeex coming out lot of advances
[00:06:26] and obviously the open claw revolution that I've now done seven podcasts on in a row. What are your thoughts Jamal? >> I think there are two open questions that I find really interesting right now. The first question is, I tweeted it this morning, but is on prem the new cloud, which is weird to think that that could even be possible, but we've spent since 2008 migrating everything to cloud because there were these economies of scale. And
[00:06:58] it created better margin and lower opex and lower capex because you could essentially share infrastructure with other companies. And that's how AWS and GCP have built such gargantuan businesses. The counterpoint to that though is that in the AI revolution, companies I suspect will be fighting for their lives. And I think it's very much unclear whether it makes sense for a company to allow the natural leakage of
[00:07:27] their edge and their confidential and proprietary information out into the wild versus the control that they would get if they ran on prim. That's a really important question. What do I mean by all that? Once you use these tools, it is very difficult for a company to be able to control how their data is used subsequently thereafter. Meaning if I gave you Jason a PDF of some really important strategy document or a
[00:07:53] PowerPoint deck or a really critical model and you're interrogating it with one of these models. If you're just using chat GPT the mainline instance of it you're leaking all of that prompt and response metadata back to Chat GPT back to Gemini back to Claude. And there's nothing a company can do about that. If you're using a set of agents to act on all that information, all those agent traces are going back to these model builders. That
[00:08:22] may or may not be a problem for some, but I suspect it is a deep problem for others and they just haven't uncovered it yet. When they realize that that is a problem, the enterprise will have to decide, do I just give up and keep running all of this stuff in the cloud in a shared experience or do I bear the incremental cost of running this stuff in a more coordinated manner that I control on prem and that would be a
[00:08:50] crazy shift just to completely go back to where we were 20 and 30 years ago. That's a non so obvious thing that may happen. So that's number one. And then number two, I also tweeted this. There was this really interesting ruling around what happens inside these cloud environments, which was a judge saying there is no attorney client privilege and confirming that once you start to use those tools, all of that stuff is
[00:09:17] complete public domain material. If you put these two things together, it creates a very interesting set of questions for enterprises. You will need AI to survive. But if you use the tools as they exist today at a public endpoint, you will give up all control, all security, all confidentiality that you today have and the ability to follow through and control what your employees do with it. The only solution is to have
[00:09:42] the pendulum swing all the way back and have private provision networks, which increases cost, but then if you save a bunch of money because of AI, maybe it all balances out. That is the big question that I'm wrestling with right now. >> Good insights there. And I have some thoughts on the um onrem because I'm actually doing it right now. Freeberg, your thoughts on this moment in time when we have people uh saying it's
[00:10:06] happening faster and it's become recursive. Recursive obviously fancy word for those in the audience who haven't heard it before. Just these models and these agents can go out and improve their own work. So after they do some work or a job for you, you can have another agent say, &quot;Hey, here's how to do it better or go learn these new skills. Go use this skill last 30 days to go find the last seven days or 30
[00:10:27] days of best practices with this tool and make yourself better and do that every night at 1:00 a.m. What are your thoughts, Freedberg, on the moment in time we are in right now?&quot; Well, I think the thinking historically was that it was going to be about recursive model development where we were going to continuously improve the actual model and we were waiting for a context window where you could feed the model back to
[00:10:53] itself. So, you're effectively retraining the model continuously and it may be the case that the output is what's recursive and that turns out is having the effect that everyone was waiting for. So, it's kind of a surprise. I saw a lot of computer scientists that have worked in AI for some time, I think, be a little bit surprised about this moment that we're in that we're seeing such incredible strides in model performance just by
[00:11:18] making the output recursive. So, let's see how far it goes. Are you still obsessed with OpenClaw, Jac? I am. We have now seen that every week 5 to 10% of the work we're doing inside of our venture firm is being moved over to OpenClaw. We call them replicants. You can think of them as personas. So we now have three or four of these. Uh we give them a notion account, a Slack account, and we give them a Google Docs account.
[00:11:43] They have their own email. And I think all of this technology was here all along. It was really or maybe for the last 6 months, let's say, really good models out there. But no company would give the keys to the kingdom to allow these agents to actually act on your behalf. Why? because they don't want to be responsible if it ships your Bitcoin keys or your passwords to somebody else. So, in order to use these, you have to
[00:12:09] trust them. And if you trust them and then you are monitoring them, the results are unbelievable. We uh have also to your point Chamath fired up Max Studios. We have Kimmy on them. We are moving all of the work onto these and then they'll use Kimmy for most of their easy jobs, which is free. Then they will use claude 4.6 opus to orchestrate things. We also now that we have four of them freedberg we've created openclaw
[00:12:39] ultron which is one meta replicant that is managing the other four and it checks their work. It talks to them all day long about what they're doing and then summarizes it. And we're building skills into each one of these. So one of the skills is like doing deep research. One of the skills is being able to go into our sales database which is in pipe drive. The gains we're getting I was able to go through everything my Athena
[00:13:07] assistant was doing and I was able to take about and I know Chimath you have an Athena assistant too. I was able to take maybe 30% of the Athena assistants work and give it to the replicant that let the Athena assistant work on higher level stuff. I would say on the average investment team individual, we now have probably 20% of their work being done by agents in real time. And the best part about it is they don't forget to do
[00:13:30] work. They don't make mistakes. So once you put this in, you don't need to have checklists. They just do it perfectly every single time. >> Crazy. >> And they work. >> It's nuts, Jamal. So now I'm building and I've been talking to Benny awful a lot cuz he's got Slackbot. Claude's got co-work, but none of them have the keys to the kingdom. So, what I'm doing is I'm upgrading to the enterprise version of Slack. Shamat, you're I think
[00:13:55] probably your number two investment in your career. What an amazing investment that was. Um, it's number four. >> Number four. Okay. Listen, keep grinding. Top five investment for you. I'm upgrading to the highest level and I'm ingesting every single Slack message and then I'm upgrading and giving the API key for every single email in our organization to Ultron. They will know everything going on in the organization.
[00:14:19] It is mind-blowing how fast this is going. And then finally, just a plug, I'm investing in 10 startups in OpenClaw space, 125K each to come to the accelerator. If you're doing work on this openclaw.co, email me what you're doing cuz we want to invest in in at least a 10 or 20 of these companies right now. Uh this is the 100% focus of our firm. It is insane. When do you guys think enterprises have a huge freakout
[00:14:48] around all of this and say, &quot;Wow, we're leaking all of our most important information out into the wild.&quot; But Sachs, to your point, the industrious person trying to get ahead all of a sudden is using an open endpoint to like make a deck better. and somehow all of that stuff is out in the wild. They find out people are going to have a freakout moment here soon. >> I think there's a big opportunity to
[00:15:10] take something like OpenClaw and make it enterprisegrade and secure and all that kind of stuff. One of my partners at Craft actually created a new tool called Lobster Tank, which is a version of Open Claw that's got some enterprise security wrapped around it. >> This is what I mean. On prem is back. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. It's cost savings plus do I want to give all of the secrets in our
[00:15:31] organization, every piece of intellectual property to Sam Alman who's got to make a billion dollars a year to keep up with his spend, right? He's going to build every application. >> Let's not make it about Sam. Do I, if I'm GEIGO, >> want to have all of my actuaries using all of our proprietary, private, and confidential data on risk pricing in an open instance of an LLM? The answer is no. That's obvious. >> Yeah.
[00:16:01] >> So now the question is how do you adapt to that? How do you actually generate tokens in that kind of a situation? How do you reason in that kind of a situation? That is a very expensive technical problem. It's not necessarily complicated, but it is technical. That will bloat the opex because you're going back to a place that you had said didn't make sense anymore. It felt very antiquated if you ever heard a company
[00:16:23] was on prem. But AI may be the reason where you can't afford to be not on prem. >> Yeah. And it's it's going to be on your desktop, too, because one of the solutions to this is just giving each employee a really powerful desktop that is capable of running a local large language model, which right now takes a Mac studio with 512 gig or or daisy chaining two of them. And that's what people are doing. >> Remember these vax terminals? I think
[00:16:53] that you could actually see a resurgence of that idea. So you have a centralized computer and you have a bunch of dumb terminals >> y >> and you have a CLI and so you can interact with it that way >> but again it keeps everything inside the >> but you could also you could also fire up your own instance in the cloud and just run it >> too expensive at scale like for example 8090 is a top 20 customer bedrock >> it's too expensive already as it is