[00:29:29] be a debt trader, a credit trader, you can be an equities trader. I've done it several times. Aman has done it. David Einhorn has done it. Cliff Robbins has done it. These are incredible places and you pay like $10,000 a ticket and if you take those portfolios, they tend to do really well. Separately, there are conferences that investment banks organize that are off the record, not publicly accessible where they ask their
[00:29:53] biggest traders to come to a room, and they'll give them each a few minutes to present their best long and short ideas of public stocks. Then there are these equivalent conferences that investment banks do for private companies where the best fast growing private companies show up and the CEOs get on stage and they give presentations. All of these things have been closed. I would like to blow that wide open. So
[00:30:17] what will we do? We will convene the best investors in public markets, the best hedge fund managers, the best private market investors, the best growth investors, the best credit investors, and the largest cohort of LPs representing trillions of dollars of capital, and the CEOs of the fastest growing and most important companies in technology. And what we will do over the course of a few days is we'll have some
[00:30:48] presentations. We'll have best ideas. We'll build relationships. There may be some investments that may happen as a result of that. We're going to shut down all of Yianville. We're going to shut down the French Laundry. We're going to shut down all of it. And it'll be ours for a two-day playground where we will build relationships, allocate capital, and maybe make some money as a result. So, you need to apply. We will make some allocations to
[00:31:15] some folks that may not otherwise get in. We'll make some allocations to emerging managers who may need to raise capital and scale up but can show us good returns. And over time, we'll find a way to increase a lot of this and make it more and more publicly accessible. We But we are going to essentially take all of these things that I've been a part of that have been in closed rooms and we're going to put them together and open it
[00:31:38] up. >> Yeah. Well said. Well said. It's going to be a wonderful event. Freeberg, uh, anything you're excited about in terms of the event? >> No, I love Yfville. We're going to Yanfell, so I'm looking forward to that. It's going to be great. >> I mean, beautiful location and I think there's going to be ample time for meetings, networking. >> Jal, if you're an investor, you can go to the website to >> allin.com/events
[00:32:02] and you can submit your application. We can't have everybody there and this is not like a general admission type event. It is specifically for this group of people, capital allocators. So apply at the website allin.com/events. It's going to be wonderful. And Shimoth is putting his focus on it. I can tell you because I brought him my first five ideas and he was like, &quot;No, no, no. Yes, but better.&quot; Yes. Yes. So he is engaged
[00:32:25] and he's going to make it super tight and tight. >> I'm being judgy. >> Good. I like it. I like it. You know, all great events, all great art is has some perspective behind it and we're excited to have your sharp perspective behind this one. Liquidity May 31st to June 3rd. allin.com/events. Okay, let's move on to our next topic. The new CBO report is out. Freeberg, you said we are in a debt death spiral. The Congressional Budget Offer released its
[00:32:52] long-term budget forecast on Wednesday, February 11th. Here are the numbers. 2026 deficit is 1.9 trillion. And that's nearly 6% of GDP, much higher than the 3% GDP target we heard from Scott Besson on this podcast. Social Security, I talked about that before. Freeberg Trust runs out in 2032, uh, one year earlier than previously expected. That's obviously going to trigger all kinds of discussions around austerity measures that folks will not
[00:33:20] like. The debt will now grow from 31 trillion today to 56 trillion in 2036. So, it is not stopping, folks. We are looking at an average of 2.5 trillion per year from 2026 to 2036. Also, currently we're at 120% debt to GDP. House Committee on Budget expects it to be 135%. So slightly up in 2036. For comparison, Japan is 237, Singapore 176, Venezuela 164, the Greeks 154, UK 94. 20 years ago, our debt to GDP was
[00:33:56] but 60%. Here's a direct quote from the report. The fiscal trajectory is not sustainable. Okay, Dr. Doom, what do you think? Freeberg, this is your story, your chance to shine. >> Well, there's no outlook to 3% deficit to GDP. >> There he is. And if you look at the assumptions, one of the key assumptions is that the short-term interest rate, which is largely how a lot of the debt is getting refinanced, is modeled to be around
[00:34:29] 3.1%. But if rates climb closer to 5%, as I mentioned in the past, just using the current debt levels, it adds another $650 billion a year of interest expense, which takes interest expense almost up to$2 trillion a year just paying the interest on the past debt. And because we're running a deficit, that new interest expense increases the debt every year. So the debt goes up and up and up just by adding interest on past
[00:34:57] debt. And so this becomes the death spiral that we've kind of highlighted many times. So there's nothing in this report that I think changes the outlook. It's pretty scary. Um, I'll say that the trigger point that I'm getting more and more concerned about, if the Democrats win the midterms and you end up with a Democrat in the White House in 2028, I think that there's a bigger problem at foot, which is all of the state and
[00:35:25] local obligations. We've talked about Social Security looks like it's going to run out of money in a few years here. And so, they're going to need to print a lot more money to fund Social Security obligations. uh it's very unlikely they're going to make a massive cut to social security because no one will get elected if they did that and no one will get elected if they promise to do that. Um and there's a similar problem at the
[00:35:46] state and local level which is that there's pension obligations. We've talked about this extensively. California has nearly a trillion dollars of unfunded pension obligations to its public retirees or public employees that are going to retire. If you end up with a Democratc controlled House and a Democrat president in 2028, you'll very likely see a federalization of that obligation, meaning that the federal government will step in to bail out or
[00:36:13] support those state and local governments because otherwise there's going to be a real kind of economic crisis a foot. So when you add that liability coming to hit this CBO report, which doesn't include any of that in the next 5 to 10 years, I think that could be not just the straw that breaks the camel's back, but the concrete that breaks the camel's back. And that's the thing I'm most worried about. There is a
[00:36:36] deep connection between what's going on with the socialist movements at a city level and now increasingly at a state level and what we should expect to happen with the US dollar and how it relates to federal spending and federal deficits and federal debt and these are going to be dragging each other into a bad place in the next couple of years one way or the other. So, you know, that's kind of what I'm more worried
[00:37:00] about at this point. It seems if it's very hard to cut spending or get Congress to approve budget cuts that we need to save ourselves from this debt death spiral, imagine how much worse it's going to be in the next couple of years if we have to bail out or federalize state and local uh debt and state and local pension obligations. It's going to be really nasty. So, that's the thing I worry about the most. Yeah.
[00:37:22] >> In my Dr. Doom hat. >> Yeah. And I think that that's one of the things that no one talks about at the federal level and everyone ignores it because they assume it's a state and local problem >> as we've talked about and I'll bring it up again and I'll ask my colleague who works in the administration to think about this idea that you know if we can find a way to declare bankruptcy to restructure the the fiscal obligations
[00:37:42] or the the pension obligations that sit at the state and local level we may have a way out but short of that uh that's going to pile onto this this federal problem. Sax, your thoughts on the CBO report and this uh death spiral, debt death spiral. >> Well, we all agree about the problem of federal spending and the deficit and the debt and we're all concerned about that. With respect to the CBO study, however,
[00:38:09] I'll just note that one of the key assumptions here is that CBO projects that real GDP will only grow by 2.2% this year in 2026. That's a very low assumption given that we grew by over 4% in Q3 last year and the preliminary number for Q4 was over 5%. And I think all of our predictions for GDP growth this year when we did our predictions episode was 5% plus. So 2.2% is a pretty low number. And then they predict that
[00:38:41] it's going to slow to 1.8% after 2026. So again, these are very meager anemic growth assumptions. And if you believe that all of this capex that's being invested in AI infrastructure is going to have a payoff then the growth rates could be a lot higher. And that ultimately I think is the way to get out of the debt spiral is we need strong growth. Without that we're not going to get out of this problem. So look I think that if you
[00:39:10] believe in growth then the situation is not quite as dire. You know what would I do? Well, I mean, if I could wave a magic wand, the two key charts you want to look at are federal net outlays as a percent of GDP. This is from Fred, right? And then you want to look at federal receipts, which is tax receipts as a percent of GDP. And you just don't want those lines to be more than call it 3% apart. I think that's what Secretary
[00:39:34] Besson said is try to reduce federal deficits to 3% of GDP. Historically, tax receipts have bounced around 17%. And the federal net outlays have bounced around 20%. So, if you get back to that, we'd be in pretty good shape. And we were before CO our federal net outlays, which means spending as a percent of GDP was around 20%. But then with CO, it bounced all the way up to 30% in 2020 because of both a function of all the
[00:40:06] stimulus, but then also the fact that the economy shrank because of CO and we've never quite gotten back to that magic 20% number. Right now, it's trending around 23%. So, we're doing a lot better than we did under CO, but it's still just a few percent higher. I mean, if it was up to me, I would just freeze federal spending until the economy grew to the point where federal spending as a percent of GDP is 20%. And
[00:40:30] then you could let federal spending continue to grow as the economy grows. And we're not even talking about cuts here. We're not even talking about shrinking the size of the government. We're just talking about limiting the rate of growth until the overall size of the economy can catch up with it. But look, as we know, it's very hard to get Washington to go along with that because there is just a lot of spending pressure
[00:40:53] in Washington. One thing I will say though, I mean, just to give some credit to the administration here, is that the level of federal employment is at the lowest level since 1966. So during uh President Trump's second term here, we've gone from roughly 3 million federal employees to a little bit under 2.7 million. So, you know, over 300,000 federal employees have been cut. I think that is a good start. I mean, you
[00:41:20] >> 10% >> is a good start for you, >> by the way. I think that's I think that's really important to just pause on just so people understand this isn't like some hurtful thing about firing people. They lose their jobs. But when people move from the government workforce into the private workforce, they become productive. They're making things that grow the economy. And theoretically, they should also make more money. So this is positive from an
[00:41:41] economic point of view to move the workforce from public to private. It also to my point historically I think it's very important to avoid the socialist spiral that if you have too many people employed by the government it becomes impossible to not employ people by the government and that becomes ultimately deacto socialism. Shimath your thoughts here obviously great thing that we're shrinking the size of the government those people
[00:42:06] becoming more productive going into the private sector. That's a big win. We all agree 10% great job in the first year. Hey, maybe 5% the next two or three years would be even better, but the debt continues to be a problem. Uh, are you worried? Do you think there's a solution here? What would you do if you were running the show? I think you have to take a broader historical context to this. Does debt to GDP matter?
[00:42:32] It depends on many things, but mostly I would say it doesn't matter. And it's very easy for people to get agitated about that. Now, there are things that matter when you print too much money, which is the value of the dollar, the value of exports, the cost of imports, and how to actually protect your earnings and your wealth. That's a different question. This is a historical look back from about 300 years of debt
[00:43:02] to GDP of the largest functioning economies in the world. Now, what do you see? What you see is the trend where you, you know, if you smooth it out for wars, which by the way has this weird effect of first escalating the debt to GDP, but then severely impacting it in a positive way. The Napoleonic War, the FrancoRussian War, World War II, these things all had positive effects on bringing debt to GDP once the war was
[00:43:28] over. But the general trend since 1700 to now is up and to the right. And the key observation is that it moves in unison that these things are relative problems. So if the entire world moves in unison like this there is an argument to be made which is that you could end up at 300 250 200% of debt to GDP. But if everybody is there nothing really changes that much. The real question is if one country is able to decouple
[00:44:04] itself and its economic output is so meaningfully different than everybody else's. So my first take on this whole debt to GDP thing is I think you have to look at it together as a group. Separately, is it important to contain the debt? Absolutely. But for these other reasons, for earnings, for inflation, for all of those very practical reasons that impact your daily lived life. And what do we know there? We know that President Trump
[00:44:32] was elected on a massive mandate to secure the border on one hand, but to look at waste, fraud, and abuse on the other. And on that side, what did he do? He drafted the most important and prolific private businessman in the history of the world to be his tip of the spear. And what happened? They identified hundreds of billions of dollars. But when it came down to it and Congress had to act to solidify these cuts, they
[00:44:59] haven't done much of anything. Which is a way of saying that if the most conservative Congress in the history of the United States has not done much to solidify these cuts that were identified by the White House and Doge, then as Freeberg said, it'll only get worse if there's ever a Democratic House and Democratic control. So what do we have to do? I think we have to just acknowledge that if debt to GDP continually moves in unison, the music
[00:45:27] isn't up for a very long time. That's just an observation. I'm not saying it's right or wrong. It's just the observation. But you got to find ways of hedging and owning real durable assets because the underlying currency that is used in these economies even on a relative basis will fluctuate wildly and just fall off of a cliff which will mean that it will erode the value that you have created for yourself and your
[00:45:49] family. That I think is the most important takeaway from all of this, which is we probably see things like gold do much much better over time because people will be afraid about the durability of their dollar denominated resources. But it will also be true for all these other denominated resources. But I think debt to GDP quite honestly if I had to be a betting man will trend into the 2 3 4 5 600 on a relative basis
[00:46:18] for all countries because I just think the governments of these countries are addicted to spending and there is no reason to stop safe of some other planetary species invading planet earth. >> Yeah. A black swan event. Yes. >> Yeah. There's also a question of what Fed action will do to the capacity for excess deficit spending. So if Kevin Worsh really does want to tighten the Fed's balance sheet and the Fed is effectively
[00:46:52] the first in line buyer of treasuries, meaning they are printing money to fund the government spending and they slow down or actively slow down and stop doing that, then there is a real um kind of question on what action will Congress and the administration need to take because what will happen as you know if the Fed stops buying treasuries, Treasury yields will go up. And if Treasury yields go up, that means the
[00:47:17] interest on the existing debt will start to go up. And if that lasts for a period of time and you start going from 3 to 4 to 4 12 to 5% on the short end of the the yield curve, then it starts to become way too expensive to fund this level of deficit spending because the interest expense will just start to climb and eat it all up. So I think like the Kevin Worsh question is if he really is going to reduce the balance sheet,