[00:14:48] around all of this and say, &quot;Wow, we're leaking all of our most important information out into the wild.&quot; But Sachs, to your point, the industrious person trying to get ahead all of a sudden is using an open endpoint to like make a deck better. and somehow all of that stuff is out in the wild. They find out people are going to have a freakout moment here soon. >> I think there's a big opportunity to
[00:15:10] take something like OpenClaw and make it enterprisegrade and secure and all that kind of stuff. One of my partners at Craft actually created a new tool called Lobster Tank, which is a version of Open Claw that's got some enterprise security wrapped around it. >> This is what I mean. On prem is back. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. It's cost savings plus do I want to give all of the secrets in our
[00:15:31] organization, every piece of intellectual property to Sam Alman who's got to make a billion dollars a year to keep up with his spend, right? He's going to build every application. >> Let's not make it about Sam. Do I, if I'm GEIGO, >> want to have all of my actuaries using all of our proprietary, private, and confidential data on risk pricing in an open instance of an LLM? The answer is no. That's obvious. >> Yeah.
[00:16:01] >> So now the question is how do you adapt to that? How do you actually generate tokens in that kind of a situation? How do you reason in that kind of a situation? That is a very expensive technical problem. It's not necessarily complicated, but it is technical. That will bloat the opex because you're going back to a place that you had said didn't make sense anymore. It felt very antiquated if you ever heard a company
[00:16:23] was on prem. But AI may be the reason where you can't afford to be not on prem. >> Yeah. And it's it's going to be on your desktop, too, because one of the solutions to this is just giving each employee a really powerful desktop that is capable of running a local large language model, which right now takes a Mac studio with 512 gig or or daisy chaining two of them. And that's what people are doing. >> Remember these vax terminals? I think
[00:16:53] that you could actually see a resurgence of that idea. So you have a centralized computer and you have a bunch of dumb terminals >> y >> and you have a CLI and so you can interact with it that way >> but again it keeps everything inside the >> but you could also you could also fire up your own instance in the cloud and just run it >> too expensive at scale like for example 8090 is a top 20 customer bedrock >> it's too expensive already as it is
[00:17:18] because of all this overhead >> because of their margin >> because of all the nonsense that's inside of AWS that you have to pay for in order to just get access the bare metal. So then you go to Cororeweave. Okay, fine. But what does Cororeweave tell you? They're an excellent business. A, it's all training. B, you have the situation where too much of what you have has to be guaranteed into the future because for them, it makes no
[00:17:39] sense to price it on spot. And if you buy on spot, you just get these surges. You can't deal with it. So there is no solution today that makes any sense. >> It's absolutely correct, Jam. I'll just put some numbers behind it briefly. We with our agents hit $300 a day per agent. using the uh Claude API like instantly and that was like doing maybe 10 or 20%. That's a h 100,000 a year per agent. We're getting to a place where we have
[00:18:05] to basically now say what is the token budget that we're willing to give our best devs and then if you aggregate it across all people you can clearly see a trend where you're like well hold on a second now they need to be at least 2x as productive as another employee that is actively happening inside my business because otherwise I'll run out of money. Yeah, this is a very interesting trend that I you you're not going to hear
[00:18:27] anybody else talk about, but when do tokens outpace the salary of the employee? Because you're about to hit it. I'm about to hit it. I think superstar developers are already there. >> Yeah, I think the rank and file is probably 10 20% max. More than likely, they're spending a few thousand. The average non-technical employee is probably in the hundreds to low thousands. But to your point, the trend is what matters.
[00:18:53] Yeah. So unless we have some gigantic leap forward in generating output tokens at onetenth the cost of what they are today, which I suspect we will have. So bear with everybody for a while because I think Nvidia and Grock and Google and AMD, they're all incentivized to massively ramp up the energy density and massively push down the token cost. That's going to happen, but it doesn't change the trend and it doesn't change
[00:19:18] the incentives on confidentiality. Let's talk about prediction markets, gentlemen. They hit critical mass this past weekend at the Super Bowl. More than a billion bet on Kshi, 700 million on poly market, almost two billion dollars in wagering. The media has been obsessing a bit about market manipulation, insider trading, and all these issues that are totally valid to discuss around prediction markets, which are something new in the world, at least
[00:19:46] at this scale. two specific examples uh from the halftime show. A day old anonymous Poly Market account correctly predicted 17 out of 20 halftime show bets, including the special appearances by Lady Gaga, Ricky Martin, but it only profited 17K, a tiny amount. And then another account created less than 24 hours before the game correctly bet on Bad Bunny set list. Wall Street Journal this morning with an article titled,
[00:20:12] &quot;Israeli soldiers accused of using Poly Market to bet on strikes. Israel arrested several people, including Army Reserve, for allegedly using classified information to place bets on Israeli military operations.&quot; Quote, &quot;The account in question rad in more than 150,000 in winnings before going dormant for 6 months. It resumed trading last month, betting on when Israel would strike Iran.&quot; Poly market data shows the
[00:20:36] name of the account Rico Suave 666. Roave >> Rico Suave. The name of the account Rico Suave 666. I think that's also the alias that you were using in Vegas for a little while there uh at your hotel. Rico Suave 666. The platforms are regulated of course by the CFTC. But you know, questions here uh about society getting used to this new platform. Here's Kali's CEO uh talking about this on CNBC. >> Let's say there's a a cameraman happens
[00:21:10] to be in the stadium during the rehearsals. You could argue that would be like somebody at a at a hotel who sees a rehearsal of a CEO given a presentation prior. Those guys would have normally probably had to sign NDAs by the company because they would be worried about these issues. But in the context of this, they probably wouldn't. >> It's either one of two cases. Either this information can be public and that's okay. Or it's information that
[00:21:39] cannot be public beforehand and that's communicated to the staff, right? The cameraman or the dancer. The reason why you don't know what song is going to be played first that's not public and not everybody knows beforehand. It's a little bit of a surprise Super Bowl. >> Yeah. But but it's not nonmaterial. It's not im it's not material information that can't be shared. you're making it that by putting it on this betting
[00:21:57] platform, but they have no obligation to say we're not going to tell anybody our opening lineup because there might be money made on this other place that's now betting on this. That's not the responsibility is not on them. >> Your thoughts just broadly on what I consider society getting used to these new platforms and what they represent in the marketplace of ideas. >> I think the question is, is it really insider trading? If you and I were
[00:22:23] making a side bet and I knew something about you and I had some edge or some advantage and I made a bet with you, is that fair? Should the government have a role in regulating that? This kind of goes back to securities regulation that everything needs to be registered and then there's this concept of insider information. It's a real challenge and a real question on keeping the open platform of opportunity for trading on anything
[00:22:50] while also trying to mitigate the risk of what people call insider information in these trades. There's a good chart that I think we talked about in our group chat that shows the distribution of accounts. There's a few accounts that have a huge amount of money and make almost all the profits and then a lot of accounts that have very little amount of money and they get burnt through very quickly. They actually don't have an
[00:23:12] edge. So the the accounts that have a lot of money, they generally only trade in things where they have an edge where they make markets. They actually have an arbitrage or yeah sharps and they eat up all of the the capital. So if you're a marketplace like this, you probably also want to be thoughtful about the fact that over time you could burn and churn through all of your customers, all of the users on the platform if they're
[00:23:35] constantly going to be making uh trades where they simply don't have an edge and all the capital, all the liquidity is coming from the accounts that do have an edge and effectively trade off of inside information. So just be that these things end up eating themselves up. I don't >> Shabbath man, we had in trade. I'm sure you remember that in I don't know if that was in the early 2000s. This idea has been out there but it has clicked
[00:23:59] right now for some reason. What are your thoughts broadly speaking on the value of these platforms to society? >> Let's define some terms first. So in betting >> there are two kinds of people. There are the sharps who know what's actually going to happen with a better edge and then there are the squares which is everybody else and they are grist for the mill. And in a traditional market like a sports betting market
[00:24:27] there have been edge cases where you try to throw a game or throw a fight or shave points and the sharps are involved in that. But it's increasingly harder and harder to do because the sports leagues analytically are studying these things so closely to make sure that that never happens. But what you get are people with a smarter sense of what's going to happen and people with less of a smart sense of what's going to happen. The
[00:24:54] thing with prediction markets is it's not just that. There will be those things. But then there are going to be these fundamental markets that are purely about inside information. And the question is what can a regulatory body or a society do about that? And I think the answer is not much. And the reason is is that if you try to regulate this, it looks like a securities market. And I think the problem there is that these things are
[00:25:23] too fluid and too dynamic and too ephemeral for them to be legislated like a security. And so why are these things happening? It's because there's too many of these prediction markets that can be manipulated this way. Somebody knows something that somebody else doesn't know. And there's no way to arbitrate that. This used to exist in the securities market, too. And this is where now I'm going to get a lot of
[00:25:46] people really upset with me. In 2000, we introduced the law called REGGG FD. And what was the point of REGG FD? It was basically that if you're a CFO, you cannot talk to an individual stock manager and tell him something that you then don't tell everybody else. Essentially, inside information that used to be not illegal. I won't say that it was legal. I would just say that used to be not illegal. You call your
[00:26:15] buddy, he says, &quot;Hey, how you doing?&quot; He goes, &quot;Man, Quarter was a blockbuster. You would go and buy the stock.&quot; And starting in the 2000s, it became illegal. And there used to be these networks of information arbitrage that that took advantage of this. Now, this is an example of Warren Buffett's returns pre and postreg. Now, what do you see? His returns were double the market returns when this kind of information sharing
[00:26:41] was legal. And the minute that it became illegal and you had to basically act on the same edge as everybody else, his returns went to the market return. He generated zero alpha. In fact, he probably on the margins lost a little bit. So this is the single best investor in the world. This is what happens when you have information symmetry. So it's just meant to explain that markets thrive when there's asymmetry.
[00:27:11] billions and billions of dollars will be made in asymmetry. The prediction markets today unless they are regulated out of existence or shut down will look like the stock market free and there's nothing we can do except choose not to bet it because otherwise what you're going to have are a ton of sharps taking advantage of a ton of squares and I think that's the end state. >> Jim, why is it good or bad for society
[00:27:37] that these exist? You have a take on that? There are a certain percentage of these prediction markets that are about the well functioning of society and the use of inside information gets to the truth faster and I think that has value especially if it uncovers corruption or misdeeds and so if people make money along the way and that's the incentive that it takes for folks to work around what would otherwise be whistleblower laws or
[00:28:06] something else to get to the truth and get it out there faster. That probably benefits society. Now, there's a bunch of other things where some people will just set up a market that they know about and that they can control that other people aren't unaware. That's not good. But unfortunately, there's no way to discern when a prediction market gets created whether it's A or B. And so, you have to decide whether it's more important that
[00:28:32] you can understand these current events faster with more accuracy or not. And I think that's where this decision has to come to and that's what politicians need to decide and society needs to decide. >> All right. We're really excited that we're doing another event. Yes. A new event from your friends at Allin. The besties are hosting a new conference uh a retreat, a summit in uh wine country May 31st through June 3rd. It's called
[00:28:57] liquidity. This is for capital allocators and LPs and GPS. Chamatop, maybe you could talk a little bit about the vision we have here for the event. >> There are a handful of conferences that happen every year where money is made. I'll give you a couple of examples. All the top market traders have been invited to this thing called Iris every year where you go in front of a large audience, present your best long or short idea and you can
[00:29:29] be a debt trader, a credit trader, you can be an equities trader. I've done it several times. Aman has done it. David Einhorn has done it. Cliff Robbins has done it. These are incredible places and you pay like $10,000 a ticket and if you take those portfolios, they tend to do really well. Separately, there are conferences that investment banks organize that are off the record, not publicly accessible where they ask their
[00:29:53] biggest traders to come to a room, and they'll give them each a few minutes to present their best long and short ideas of public stocks. Then there are these equivalent conferences that investment banks do for private companies where the best fast growing private companies show up and the CEOs get on stage and they give presentations. All of these things have been closed. I would like to blow that wide open. So
[00:30:17] what will we do? We will convene the best investors in public markets, the best hedge fund managers, the best private market investors, the best growth investors, the best credit investors, and the largest cohort of LPs representing trillions of dollars of capital, and the CEOs of the fastest growing and most important companies in technology. And what we will do over the course of a few days is we'll have some
[00:30:48] presentations. We'll have best ideas. We'll build relationships. There may be some investments that may happen as a result of that. We're going to shut down all of Yianville. We're going to shut down the French Laundry. We're going to shut down all of it. And it'll be ours for a two-day playground where we will build relationships, allocate capital, and maybe make some money as a result. So, you need to apply. We will make some allocations to
[00:31:15] some folks that may not otherwise get in. We'll make some allocations to emerging managers who may need to raise capital and scale up but can show us good returns. And over time, we'll find a way to increase a lot of this and make it more and more publicly accessible. We But we are going to essentially take all of these things that I've been a part of that have been in closed rooms and we're going to put them together and open it
[00:31:38] up. >> Yeah. Well said. Well said. It's going to be a wonderful event. Freeberg, uh, anything you're excited about in terms of the event? >> No, I love Yfville. We're going to Yanfell, so I'm looking forward to that. It's going to be great. >> I mean, beautiful location and I think there's going to be ample time for meetings, networking. >> Jal, if you're an investor, you can go to the website to >> allin.com/events