[00:00:00] Partisanship is the gravity that dictates every election in the US, right? Like my job, don't worry, I will get criticized if if we say, "Oh, whatever, Gavin Newsom or AOC is a 55% favorite and they lose." But like but 43 of the 50 states say that we could probably predict right now with 97% confidence who they'll vote for in 2028. And it's not because of rigging, it's because polarization and partisanship are very powerful forces that we can't
[00:00:30] seem to to escape from. >> I'm going all in. >> Starting a business usually means juggling a bunch of different services just to look legit. Not anymore. With Northwest Registered Agent, you get a complete business identity all in one place. A business address, domain, website, phone number, and more. With privacy protection built in from day one. Don't spend hundreds or thousands on services you can get from Northwest
[00:00:59] for free. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/allinfree and start using free resources to build your business today. >> I'm going all in. >> All right, everybody, welcome back to the All-In Interview program. We are delighted today to have the one, the only Nate Silver on the program. Gambler, statistician, podcaster, Substacker. Go subscribe right now for a hundy. Quick hundy at silverbulletin over at Substack. It's a great Substack.
[00:01:31] How you doing, brother? Nice to see you with your Knicks hat on. >> I'm good. You know, I think I have like one more week to wear the Knicks hat. It's a little bulky, not super podcast video friendly. But I I you know, once in 53 years, once in my lifetime at least. >> go to any of the playoff games? >> I went to a bunch of the Philly series. I went to I think as Jason did, I was in Philly for like the New York City
[00:01:53] takeover of Wells Fargo Arena or whatever the hell called now, Infinity or something. >> Yeah. >> Um I went to the Trump game, which was not the right game to go to, but I wanted to be there. I wanted to kind of cover it for my readers. I felt like it was a moment where New York might triumph out of this show that it was to get into the arena. It was a little >> show up what, 2 hours early to get in? 3 hours? >> I am I am not a particularly prompt
[00:02:19] person. No, I got I'm not wasn't going to miss So I got there at like 6:00, 6:05 for an 8:30 game. Lined up, you're supposed to get in on 6th Avenue and 33rd, and I was like on 6th and 30th or 29th. It wasn't the worst It wasn't the least efficient process I've ever seen. New York has a way of getting things done, and you just kind of like >> Yeah. >> follow people and and once you get in, I mean, it was like literally TSA
[00:02:42] security. They like literally like look at your wallet by hand, and they take your lighters and and and your pens and your vapes and everything like that. And once you get in, it was pretty normal. I did feel like the crowd was a little bit fatigued by the second questionable officiating decisions. >> Yeah. Did you bet any of the games? And like did you find the odds were off anywhere? >> I had the Knicks to win the Eastern
[00:03:07] Conference Finals, and then after they wrapped up their series, I bet them to win the finals against either OKC or San Antonio. So I actually I The ticket was not cheap. I paid It would not cover Jason's tickets, but I was able to cover cover my 200-level [clears throat] Bulls seat with the profits from from those non-homer bets. I thought the Knicks were legitimately overlooked in the East, and when you see a team that wins,
[00:03:32] like that game against Atlanta where we were up like literally like 77 to 22 >> Yeah. I was like >> I'm like As someone who like studies this stuff and builds models, to see that kind of signature significance for that level of dominance over whatever it was four rounds of the playoffs, like that's that's real. That's like not noise. >> Do you bet prediction markets, or how do you bet? >> Big Tony. If >> [clears throat]
[00:03:55] >> If you are I don't bet through Big Tony. If you are someone who's perceived so I've been limited by DraftKings and and MGM, a lot of the uh traditional retail sportsbooks limit you. The prediction markets do not. I consult for Polymarket, I should say. So, if you're a sharp better, I have other issues believe me with the prediction markets, but if you are a sharp better, then it becomes easier to just concentrate your activity on the
[00:04:17] prediction markets where, you know, you have very smart people, you have hedge funds who are probably making bets in these markets more and more, but yeah, more more and more. I don't want to go through the rigmarole of like, can I even get my money down? So, I I will admit I've gravitated toward toward those, yes. >> And uh when you look at this team, what do you attribute cuz obviously during the season it was up and down. We were 15 games
[00:04:40] from the end of the season. People are like, hey, we got to trade for Giannis. We got to get Kat out of here. But in January, February, we had this incredible run where we had used Kat as the set point center. And then we backed off of it and I was on Knicks Fan TV talking with like the real deep folks and there was speculation like they figured it out and they're like, let's hold this play. Mike Brown said, let's
[00:05:01] hold Kat at the point from, you know, until the playoffs cuz we know it works so good. But what makes this team so special? Is it the wings? Is it just Brunson's grit? Is it the three-point shooting across the team? Selflessness, ball movement, there's so many things people talk about here with this team. >> I think it's Mike Brown and Kat. I'm not saying they're the most important components of the Knicks, I'm saying
[00:05:24] they're those are the deltas where things changed the most. Um on defense, a couple of things. Number one, you have I love Jalen Brunson, might be my favorite player. Um he's not a terrific one-on-one defender. He gets a few steals, but like he's undersized. The low center of gravity somehow doesn't work on defense as well, but like every other defender on the Knicks, including Towns, which is a the dis- descended point of view are are at least
[00:05:49] average if not better and so like kind of figuring out that system by the way when you rely on a defensive system that requires high effort and transition play not playing your guys 37 minutes per game against like the Charlotte Hornets in the regular season probably a smart move um >> Yeah, this is why Tibs had to go when you look back on it Tibs going who ground these guys into submission for three seasons and they were
[00:06:12] yeah it was like we were down one two or three starters for every round of the previous playoffs yeah. >> Yeah, I remember going to the Indiana I guess game seven of the semi-finals against Indiana in 2024 you kind of see like OG was hobbling around out there I guess Josh Hart kind of valiantly played and you're like these guys are like an infirmary ward. >> Mhm. >> Um and especially because you're relying on smart high effort defense so that
[00:06:37] part of defense and low-key they became like a much better defensive team in the second half right? Um I remember also going this year to the Knicks Nets game in December or January not the most fun part of the year in New York where um where they had lost like seven or nine games and there was all the talk about like Kat being traded and I just wanted to go and check out the vibe. I actually bet on the Knicks to win by like 15
[00:07:04] points or more because I thought this is either going to be like the beginning of the end for this regime or it's going to be a turnaround game against you know a team that's trying to lose frankly a cross town rival is trying to lose. And the fans were like pretty tolerant of Kat. They wound up winning by like 60 points or something totally absurd or held the Nets to one of the lowest scores in the modern NBA era and like
[00:07:25] that team from there they by the way they won the NBA Cup. >> Yep. >> But like in the second half they had something like the fifth best defense in the NBA they had the best defense in the NBA in the playoffs I mean not sustainable but like but that on defense and then Kat presenting like again like I love Jalen Brunson. The offense can be a little bit predictable. Maybe in clutch possessions. Yeah, right. And it's amazing that Jalen Brunson I
[00:07:49] mean he shot like 53% between 16 and 22 feet, which is kind of insane given that you know it's coming. It's like Mariano Rivera's like cut fastball. You know it's coming. Um but just to have more optionality and variety in the offense and to have more ball movement. So to have those two spontaneous things happen, the coaching system let him improve on defense plus like Cat having a revelation. Like I think he's like one
[00:08:14] of the 15 best players in the league. He was rated as like Yeah. He's a really good player. And so those two things combined, it you know, a little bit unusual for a veteran team granted, but spontaneous improvement on both sides of the ball um coupled with the Knicks by the way have the most playoff games out of any team in the past four years. More than Boston, more than OKC, a lot more than San Antonio. There is empirical evidence
[00:08:41] that playoff experience does matter. Um this comes up in in poker too. If you are in your first big tournament and maybe you're rated the GPI number one player and you're playing in the main event of the World Series of Poker, nerves are a thing. Even in golf, nerves are a huge thing. It's a physical ordeal almost and like you're operating on different operating system and to have had experience in a lot of high stakes
[00:09:05] games, not all of which were wins, but like it really does it really does help and and Wemby >> Those two comebacks from the Pacers game from the Boston games where we just broke their backs last year. That I think made it obvious to anybody when we're down 10-15 points, that's not a lead against the Knicks. The Knicks are going to come back. We're just that good. Um and it's just fantastic now that the entire league has to plan,
[00:09:31] how do they beat the Knicks? We spent the last like five or six years, how do we get through Boston? How how we get through this team? Now the entire league has to do that. All right. We should get started here. We got so much to talk about and obviously you specialize in elections. We have the midterms coming up. We're going to talk about 2028 post-Trump world, all of that. But we just concluded an election. An election
[00:09:51] which I don't want to speak for Dave, but you may have seen or heard the podcast where he was like, "Hey, this is not illegal, but it doesn't feel like a real election." Take us through what happened in your estimation in California with Spencer Pratt. Fraud, just mail-in ballots. >> Yeah, that was just the LA election, Jason, just to be clear. >> Yeah, just to be with LA, but go ahead, build on it. Yeah. >> The question that I wanted to talk to
[00:10:17] you about, Nate, is when you look at the in-person return data and then you look at the early mail-in data and then the late mail-in data where suddenly Nithya Raman has this massive surge and there's this huge statistical difference as the ballots start to get counted in the days and weeks that follow, she wins. It seems very improbable that there's a true statistical difference in the population that might you know, be in-person, mail-in in early
[00:10:45] and mail-in late. And I just wanted to get your read on that. >> So, I'd say I think there's no evidence of fraud is the short summary version. The mistake that can be made is to assume that each ballot like comes in independently when there are systematic differences between groups and when they tend to cast their ballots. So, Democrats have long been encouraged to vote by mail. Actually, it used to be more of a
[00:11:07] Republican thing, but like under Trump who discouraged mail voting in 2016 and 2020 um and 2024 to some extent, like that shifted. So, look, I think California's system is completely unacceptable. I've done um some consulting work on like the Indian election where you like literally have polling stations in the Himalayas and they actually stagger their elections, but once election day happens, they count their
[00:11:33] vote within 24 hours. I think it's ridiculous and very failed state that California takes longer than that. But if you have one party who systematically tends to vote later, also Democrats in both the LA race and the governorship had more of a choice to make. Uh, you know, it wasn't clear, you know, for a while it looked like Eric Swalwell was going to was going to win and then Katie Porter and then and then and then, you
[00:11:57] know, Becerra finally emerges. Becerra, like, look, my dad is from LA. I spent a lot of time in California, and I am all on board with the criticisms of how the state is being governed, at least in parts of the state. I was in um San Diego for New Year's. And beautiful time of year to be in San Diego and like you can like literally run on the sand and the beach and everyone's kind of like hot and you have good fish tacos and everything else.
[00:12:23] Like that I kind of understood the California of like my youth or my dad's youth or whatever else and understand the appeal of the state and I understand why LA and SF, I think LA in particular kind of never really recovered from the pandemic. We can talk about that. At the same time, it's a very partisan state. We have very partisan Democrats like Kamala Harris and Gavin Newsom who emerged in the state. We saw in the
[00:12:47] redistricting referendum, I guess it was in 2025, how like you can debate whether it's a good idea or not, but like that traced with a Democratic margin in presidential years very strongly, even though for many years Democrats have been the party against gerrymandering. Um, it's a capital D Democratic state. It's not an idiosyncratic blue state like Maine or something. And like so like to expect even a very talented
[00:13:14] Republican like Spencer Pratt to win the mayor's ship. I mean, even in New York, we have a bit more heterodoxy. Historically, we've had a you know, socialist mayor. We've had Michael Bloomberg and Rudy Giuliani in recent years, too. California is not that way. It's much more of a a machine state. >> But when you look at that statistical difference, I I get the idea that Democrats mail-in ballots and they show
[00:13:37] up late. But when you look at the overwhelming vote for Nithya Raman over Karen Bass that happened late in the counting cycle versus early in the counting cycle and the statistical kind of shift over that happened. And you look at the difference between in-person and mail-in and being so statistically different. And I get your point about Republicans are more likely to go in person and maybe you can make that leap there. But the difference
[00:14:02] in the counting that happened over time, the ratio just seems so different between Raman and Bass. And then people bring up this idea of ballot harvesting where there were homeless people from Skid Row and the number of ballots that came from that particular region in the late mail-in was kind of concentrated for Nithya Raman. Do you get a sense that that actually is a true representation of individual voters and
[00:14:24] how they individually voted in that election? >> I think the California vote count is an accurate tally of the votes that were cast. I mean, yeah, look. >> And were those cast mail-in Were they cast by the individuals that were supposed to cast them? Right? This is one of the theories is that there's ballots that are getting filled out en masse in these ballot harvesting efforts where people walk around and they say,
[00:14:46] "Hey, fill out this ballot for this person and here's a free lunch." Or I don't know what's going on. But like there's all these videos. I don't know if they're true or not. >> I think there is propaganda around this. I also think that like mail-in voting provides some verification challenges in different ways. Uh, you know, I don't inherently see anything that wrong with a system where you go to a physical place to vote and
[00:15:09] you sign um, you sign your voter log and and whether you show ID or not. And then if you have like a disability or you're really in bad straits or you're traveling in Albania or something, then you can >> That makes sense. But I want to ask you I just want to ask you the empirical question. What is the difference in states or districts or cities that don't have voter ID and those that do? Politically, like is that basically
[00:15:31] create a huge over waiting for Democrats? Can you just help us understand the politics behind this from an empirical perspective, not putting on a spin hat or anything. >> So the theory used to be that Democrats benefit from higher turnout by kind of any means at all. And that was an era when Democrats tended to dominate among non-college educated voters where Republicans were like the the you know, country club Kiwanis Club
[00:15:57] people who like show up in the first day of voting. That has shifted. Look where Democrats have really really over performed, it's in special elections, it's in midterms as opposed to high turnout races like like when Trump's been on the ballot. Um and so like I think if Trump like like I think voter ID would be pretty reasonable. I'm not against voter ID. You show your ID to do you know, if you show your ID even at mid-40s to get into