[00:14:02] in the counting that happened over time, the ratio just seems so different between Raman and Bass. And then people bring up this idea of ballot harvesting where there were homeless people from Skid Row and the number of ballots that came from that particular region in the late mail-in was kind of concentrated for Nithya Raman. Do you get a sense that that actually is a true representation of individual voters and
[00:14:24] how they individually voted in that election? >> I think the California vote count is an accurate tally of the votes that were cast. I mean, yeah, look. >> And were those cast mail-in Were they cast by the individuals that were supposed to cast them? Right? This is one of the theories is that there's ballots that are getting filled out en masse in these ballot harvesting efforts where people walk around and they say,
[00:14:46] "Hey, fill out this ballot for this person and here's a free lunch." Or I don't know what's going on. But like there's all these videos. I don't know if they're true or not. >> I think there is propaganda around this. I also think that like mail-in voting provides some verification challenges in different ways. Uh, you know, I don't inherently see anything that wrong with a system where you go to a physical place to vote and
[00:15:09] you sign um, you sign your voter log and and whether you show ID or not. And then if you have like a disability or you're really in bad straits or you're traveling in Albania or something, then you can >> That makes sense. But I want to ask you I just want to ask you the empirical question. What is the difference in states or districts or cities that don't have voter ID and those that do? Politically, like is that basically
[00:15:31] create a huge over waiting for Democrats? Can you just help us understand the politics behind this from an empirical perspective, not putting on a spin hat or anything. >> So the theory used to be that Democrats benefit from higher turnout by kind of any means at all. And that was an era when Democrats tended to dominate among non-college educated voters where Republicans were like the the you know, country club Kiwanis Club
[00:15:57] people who like show up in the first day of voting. That has shifted. Look where Democrats have really really over performed, it's in special elections, it's in midterms as opposed to high turnout races like like when Trump's been on the ballot. Um and so like I think if Trump like like I think voter ID would be pretty reasonable. I'm not against voter ID. You show your ID to do you know, if you show your ID even at mid-40s to get into
[00:16:24] a bar, you can probably show it to vote. Um but like at the same time um I don't think that explains what we saw in California. I think it's a system that is much too slow. We have different tranches of ballots that are kind of differently and where younger people that might be more progressive tend to vote later and or by mail. And again, it's not like this happened in Alabama or something. The the prior on Pratt
[00:16:49] advancing probably would be pretty low potentially and I wish that people were were less partisan. I you know, I have been um critical on on the newsletter so we're bullish about Grant Platner for example, um because I think he's somebody who has not proven a reliable figure so to speak. And I was critical of of Joe Biden and I'm not even registered as a Democrat by the way despite what people assume. Um but if you're going to have
[00:17:19] five different ways to vote, and I say this to someone with experience like actually trying to build election night models and being on national TV on election nights, these blue shifts or red shifts are somewhat predictable and are going to be a notable consequence of of having different mechanisms to vote where you have like different queues in a line, right? If you're at at MSG and you have like a VIP line, the cohort that arrives
[00:17:44] through the VIP line is going to be different than the one that arrives through like the main gates on on 7th Avenue or whatever. And I think the system should be simplified. By the way, also things like ranked choice voting, which I again, as an election wonk, I support giving voters more choice. You shouldn't need like Maine or New York City take um an extra 2 weeks to count ranked choice voting where I could cloud code
[00:18:08] >> [laughter] >> Yeah. >> a a ranked choice voting algorithm that would resolve itself in 7 minutes even with 100 million votes in Maine or half a million or whatever it was in the primary. >> have that we have the appearance of impropriety and we have a highly politicized system. I don't want to lead the witness here too much, but we do find isolated cases like this woman Annika Brenda Lee Brown Armstrong. She was
[00:18:34] paying people three bucks or giving them cigarettes to register them. You have these on the margin fraudulent looking behaviors. And then if it takes this long, that gives another appearance of impropriety, but I keep bringing up the Heritage Foundation. I'm sure you've looked at their data. They have a lot of people trying to figure out where fraud exists, investigating it, and it's de minimis. It's couple of thousands of
[00:18:59] cases they can find. So even if you extrapolated them 10x or 20x, pick your multiple, it would never swing a major election. In fact, the number of elections that have been swung based on what they told me is like the most local smallest election where there's tens of thousands of votes or thousands of votes. So, is that the issue that we're seeing here? This collection of appearances of impropriety? >> Yes. Look, the the American election
[00:19:26] system is very decentralized. Um which, you know, as kind of like a a old-school liberal in some ways, who I'm kind of against centralized power, I think is quite brilliant in some respects. But, yeah, is scale there is certainly there are certainly cases of fraud when Al Franken won, what was it, 2006, right? It came down to like a recount of like 200 votes. We're never going to know that with any degree of
[00:19:51] certainty. There is like a margin of error. But, in practice, and we know this, too, when you do have recounts, you can have studied this a lot, you have an 0.5% recount threshold in most states. Almost never have you had a margin larger than 0.05% or so overturned. The errors can also cancel out. Again, you know, the notion that someone can vote without physically being like the ward of their ballot, I understand why
[00:20:19] that bothers people, and I think California has been complacent about this, and I think perception does matter, and I think you can there's a kind of certain arrogance, I guess, is the term that comes to mind, um about saying, "Well, we want everyone to vote, and so we're just going to do things our way, and it takes a long time because we're like taking time to verify things." Again, you know, having studied
[00:20:41] elections all around the world, it's very unusual. Most countries would count much, much faster than the US. It's really because we have an Electoral College system, it's decentralized, but like in most elections in France or the UK, where they keep having elections or whatever else, or Japan or India even, you know the result of the vote within a few hours. And the fact that the United States, the technological leader of the
[00:21:03] world, and the supposed like beacon of democracy, can't do that, I think is is a sign of atrophy of of the efficacy of the system. >> Or is it by design, Nate? Let me ask you a question. If voter ID laws don't change and mail-in ballot laws don't change and the system doesn't change, is there a chance, do you think, from the data you've seen for a Republican governor to be elected again in California or for Republicans
[00:21:28] to win more seats in the house or have a shot at winning a Senate seat in California? I mean, fundamentally, does this system not get set up in such a way that it creates a irreversible model for Democrat establishment to maintain its control over elected seats in the state? >> I mean, Democrats have lost plenty of elections recently, but not in California. Partisanship is the gravity that dictates every election in the US,
[00:21:55] right? Like, my job, don't worry, I will get criticized if if we say, oh, whatever, Gavin Newsom or AOC is a 55% favorite and they lose, but like, but 43 of the 50 states say that we can probably predict right now with 97% confidence who to vote for in 2028. And it's not because of rigging, it's because polarization and partisanship are very powerful forces that we can't seem to to escape from. You know, again, I would
[00:22:21] love um You see a little bit of this in New England, actually, right? You see like a Charlie Baker or is it Phil Scott in Vermont, right? You see a little bit of like cross partisanship in New England. You see even in the South like Beshear in Kentucky is a moderate but Democratic governor. Um for some reason you don't see it as much in California. I don't know why. California's like always been like the laboratory of weird and
[00:22:46] eccentric political ideas, but it's come it's become a machine state. Maybe because it's so large that voters can't kind of touch the candidates up close and don't have a lot of like directly relatable experience. Um maybe California's just kind of like too large in general, but I like I am very concerned about polarization and partisanship. I think it leads to lower quality of governance. I think it's exacerbated by
[00:23:13] gerrymandering, this gerrymandering kind of war to the bottom. Um and Democrats have paid the price where like the triangulation, you pick the least worst nominee. Works perfectly fine in blue states. They're going to win the general election. Um it hasn't given the Democrats very effective general election nominees, right? Between um you know, I consider like you know, they're one out of the last four. I considered Biden to have
[00:23:38] lost in 2024 but before Harris lost instead. Um you know, the one election they did win was during a once-in-a-century pandemic that although I have my critiques of liberal handling of COVID, was kind of objectively handled well, I don't know. You can talk about Operation Warp Speed. I understand my voters were very unhappy with 2020 the 2020 version of Trump and and the greatest economic disruption since the
[00:24:01] 1930s. Um so they kind of won the gimme. They hadn't won the close elections recently except for Obama who conspicuously at least kind of made rhetoric to trying to bridge a divide between the parties. Um you know, Obama still has a I looked at this today, a 57% approval rating post factor with with independents. Biden is at 20%. Um and like look, I think a lot of Democrats and Republicans certainly were hoping maybe even more so Republicans
[00:24:29] frankly under Trump feel as though you don't even have to try to turn out the other side or persuade people. It's just a numbers game and in California, if you're a Democrat, you win the numbers game. >> I'm going all in. >> You run back-to-back calls all day. Decisions get made, then the details slip. Otter fixes that. Clip Otter Note Pro to your phone, hit record, and stay in the conversation. Otter Intelligence
[00:24:54] captures every word and turns it into structured notes, action items, and follow-ups, not a a transcript you'll never open. The actual work done for you. Capture more, miss nothing. Find LawNote Pro at lawd.ai. >> [music] >> I think we want to really get to 2026 and 2028 and talk about what you were alluding to, which is the polarization and how these parties have changed. The Republicans used to be, you know, this
[00:25:23] country club group, uh it leads rich people, business owners. Now they're the populist party. Then the other side, which used to be the working man and the working woman's party, they've become this liberal weird socialist party and that seems to be playing. >> They're both popular. >> What's going on with the vibes, I guess, between these two parties and how do you look at them because it does feel like inside of each of those
[00:25:47] parties you have two sub parties. So you really have like some sort of 4 by 4 matrix here or 2 by 2 matrix with four different groups. How is that going to play out in 2026, which still feels like the anti-Trump vote, like hey, I'm not happy about Trump, but 2028, there's Trump's not going to run a third time, you know, likelihood, so let's take those two buckets as well as the vibes and these parties fracturing a bit.
[00:26:12] >> Yeah, I think Democrats really have three factions as I've described them. Um one is the left, the avatars might be Zoran, um might be AOC, might be Bernie Sanders. All of whom, by the way, are quite effective politicians in their own way. I mean, Zo- Zoran understood how to like be a Knicks cheerleader, for example. >> yeah. >> [laughter] >> That speech was like almost perfect. Whoever wrote it for him is a Knicks
[00:26:40] fan. >> But look, I'll be on a I I didn't vote for him, but like I think find anyone who's like trying to like bridge gaps and expand a tent, even if it's from a direction that I might not agree with, I find that like somewhat appealing, I suppose. You know, AOC, you can take your leave. She has become a more effective tactical politician. You know, Bernie, what he's built with um with being a freaking old guy from
[00:27:06] Vermont, the socialist mayor of Burlington, Vermont, coming within not a hair's breadth, but coming, you know, quite close and beating Clinton in 20 states in 2016 or whatever was quite impressive. But like that's one constituency and historically the left has not had a lot of big wins outside of the bluest states. On the other side, there are the abundance libs, kind of named after Ezra Klein, right? They are more pro free market.
[00:27:29] They sometimes deny that they're centrist. I think they're pretty centrist. They are the ones who are very concerned with California as a case study of poor governance. And whatever you think about parties at the national level, um generally speaking, it's the purple states, sometimes the red states, where things are more are more functional, where there's more housing, where when you get out of the airport to catch an Uber,
[00:27:53] there's not some convoluted system where you have to wait 20 minutes in line to go to some shuttle like in LAX or whatever else, right? Um where there's population growth. I mean, you want to talk about like hard data, population data in the US and jobs data is pretty good. And those are states where people have moved to. And the abundance libs are critical of democratic governance and critical of of um culture war issues on policing and trans
[00:28:18] rights and and have what I call the resistance lib faction. They're the ones who say they're really fed up with the Democratic establishment, but are still often very partisan and often very like cheerleading for the blue team. They're the ones who thought that Joe Biden was railroaded out of the 2024 race, for example. They're really Gavin Newsom's constituency. Um why is Gavin Newsom going out of his way to support and endorse kind of the
[00:28:47] Bidens when Biden even among Democrats is not all that popular anymore. Everyone else wants to move on. And what's because of the signal to like the resistance libs that like, I have your back. I'm a fighter. The reason why we didn't win in 2024 is because the media was unfair to Biden and or because Kamala Harris was a black woman. So, pick a white guy who will fight for you and tweet in all caps and you'll win.
[00:29:12] >> So, it's kind of like ride or die. We're going to just our team our team our team's going to win. It doesn't matter. We never apologize. Kind of the Trump playbook. Never apologize. Go on the attack. Seems to be what Gavin's doing, right? >> Absolutely. And he had some some proof of concept. I mean, the redistricting thing was a genuinely smart tactical move. Democrats are going to wind up losing seats, but like
[00:29:33] without California, they probably lose even more. And so, he did skate where the puck was going there instead of the party's like usual risk version that I've critiqued before. Um but at the same time, the triangulating spirit of like, let's pick Kamala Harris cuz she she's like the least unacceptable candidate or Hillary or or John Kerry if you want to go back to 2004. Um the establishment doesn't seem to have
[00:30:00] an understanding of the fact that like almost every election now, Obama in 2012 was I guess the exception, almost every election now is a change election. We might ping pong back and forth for many cycles. Like I think Democrats are slight favorites to win in 2028. It wouldn't shock me if AOC or Newsom or Shapiro or Ossoff or whomever wins. If they're underdogs again in 2032. Look what's happening in the UK where I mean,
[00:30:25] it's kind of become like a running joke, but we're going to be through like what? Like six prime ministers in 9 years or something and they're probably the US's like closest comp. It's not a good time to be a defender of the status quo. And I do think candidates like Kamala Harris who was unable to distance herself, kind of literally unable or unwilling to distance herself from from Biden, or Newsom, who's kind of like
[00:30:49] defending that legacy in the same way. Like, to me that seems like a a failed strategy. But, like in a lot of these World Cup games, sometimes, you know, sometimes you win on penalties, you know? I I don't think that any of the GOP nominees look to be particularly strong. Donald Trump in our approval ratings now is down to 38%. People are upset about Iran, they're upset about gas prices, they're upset about just fatigue of having a a