[00:28:47] Bidens when Biden even among Democrats is not all that popular anymore. Everyone else wants to move on. And what's because of the signal to like the resistance libs that like, I have your back. I'm a fighter. The reason why we didn't win in 2024 is because the media was unfair to Biden and or because Kamala Harris was a black woman. So, pick a white guy who will fight for you and tweet in all caps and you'll win.
[00:29:12] >> So, it's kind of like ride or die. We're going to just our team our team our team's going to win. It doesn't matter. We never apologize. Kind of the Trump playbook. Never apologize. Go on the attack. Seems to be what Gavin's doing, right? >> Absolutely. And he had some some proof of concept. I mean, the redistricting thing was a genuinely smart tactical move. Democrats are going to wind up losing seats, but like
[00:29:33] without California, they probably lose even more. And so, he did skate where the puck was going there instead of the party's like usual risk version that I've critiqued before. Um but at the same time, the triangulating spirit of like, let's pick Kamala Harris cuz she she's like the least unacceptable candidate or Hillary or or John Kerry if you want to go back to 2004. Um the establishment doesn't seem to have
[00:30:00] an understanding of the fact that like almost every election now, Obama in 2012 was I guess the exception, almost every election now is a change election. We might ping pong back and forth for many cycles. Like I think Democrats are slight favorites to win in 2028. It wouldn't shock me if AOC or Newsom or Shapiro or Ossoff or whomever wins. If they're underdogs again in 2032. Look what's happening in the UK where I mean,
[00:30:25] it's kind of become like a running joke, but we're going to be through like what? Like six prime ministers in 9 years or something and they're probably the US's like closest comp. It's not a good time to be a defender of the status quo. And I do think candidates like Kamala Harris who was unable to distance herself, kind of literally unable or unwilling to distance herself from from Biden, or Newsom, who's kind of like
[00:30:49] defending that legacy in the same way. Like, to me that seems like a a failed strategy. But, like in a lot of these World Cup games, sometimes, you know, sometimes you win on penalties, you know? I I don't think that any of the GOP nominees look to be particularly strong. Donald Trump in our approval ratings now is down to 38%. People are upset about Iran, they're upset about gas prices, they're upset about just fatigue of having a a
[00:31:14] you know, a singular center star of politics over the past, you know, Trump kind of is like it's fatiguing a little bit. And so, like, it's an uphill battle for the GOP. Democrats might do their best to to give Republicans a fighting chance despite that. >> So, just to extrapolate from that, like the point about needing change, driving change on the progressive side, we are seeing socialists getting elected as mayor, socialists starting to rise at
[00:31:42] the state level, and many of these candidates that you've mentioned are self-declared socialists at the national level. We may potentially have a democratic socialist as president 2028, based on what you're saying. Is that ultimately where this goes, where the populist movements drive the left further left, and everyone in that party now seems to be jumping on this bandwagon, proclaiming socialist principles as the only way to solve
[00:32:09] inequity and unfairness in this country? And, you know, kind of jumping on what we were from empirical kind of history shown doesn't work as a governing system, as a economic system, but suddenly everyone's kind of been swept away by it and seems to think it's it's the the only way forward. Does that kind of be the output of the conditions that you're describing, that the left, the Democrats basically become a
[00:32:32] socialist party, and they embrace socialism fully and full-throated? >> I think there are huge generational divides where, you know, so I grew up I'm 48. Um so I still remember the kind of not last fascists, but like I still remember the Cold War. I still remember the Berlin Wall falling, right? So for me the connotations are of socialism are close adjacent to communism are a long history of failure of economic development in countries that
[00:33:03] adopted that system. I think people who are a little bit older don't realize that like the socialism brand is much more popular among younger Democrats. By the same token, America is still a supremely capitalist country, you know, if not for and again I in my book I have lots of critiques of the tech sector. We still are attracting the best and brightest young talent from all around the world, you know, I personally think
[00:33:28] the AI capital boom, whatever becomes of it, is responsible for keeping our economy, at least the stock market, in relatively good shape. Um and you know, also things like where have Democrats lost support? Well, actually the biggest differences are concentrated among Hispanic and to some extent Asian-American voters. You know, who do you think are the most likely people to own small businesses in the US? It's a cliche, but 100% true that
[00:33:55] like recent immigrant groups are very entrepreneurial. It's one thing that I believe makes the United States great and one thing that makes me very pro-immigration. Um but you have seen shifts in those groups in the most entrepreneurial groups away from Democrats. >> Yeah, because I mean they they they they all escaped socialist countries and socialist backgrounds and the economic mobility that's afforded by free markets
[00:34:17] and capitalism and the degree of true liberalism we provide in this country is what's given folks opportunities that don't exist elsewhere. But the second and third generation of the American middle class are probably you know, more likely as you point out to kind of be convinced of the benefits of socialism. >> This isn't your wheelhouse, Nate, but if you were hired to give a playbook to either party for 2028, what would be in that
[00:34:45] playbook? What would you tell them is the right platform for this moment in time, a post-Trump era, and with socialism, wealth disparity, healthcare, there's there's a group of issues here that keep coming up, the support of Israel, foreign wars. What's the perfect platform for either party, an independent or left-leaning or right-leaning? What are on going to be on the top of Americans' minds if you can look that
[00:35:12] far out? >> Yeah, look, I by most definitions am an elite, as are you guys. If you can afford tickets to game three of the Yeah. first NBA finals game in New York in whatever 25 years, and you're probably an elite. And most elites like me say they're, you know, socially liberal, economically moderate. I can I know I know I use the term liberal meaning the way liberals use in Europe, meaning some role for the state,
[00:35:39] but pro-market in general, and that's probably my view. Um I'm not sure that view is actually an electoral winner as much, right? Um the most neglected voters in the US are people who are culturally a little bit more conservative, but like economically more progressive potentially, but not quite in the same way that you get from like a an AOC. They support small business. They are wary of conglomerations of power. Maybe I'm painting that with with
[00:36:09] too generous a brush, but like I do think that like when you have the worst world's first trillionaire, when people have a lot of anxiety, maybe the anxiety is not the right shape of anxiety, but understandable anxiety about AI, when you have AI leaders saying things like it's going to displace all these white collar jobs. I look I think a electorally, I'm not saying morally or righteously whatever else, right? I think combining a little bit of
[00:36:37] the right kind of anti oligarch rhetoric um with moderation on some of the issues um you know, on the woke stuff. I get that term already feels like it's becoming outdated. Um but like still supporting small business especially for men, right? Um Young men still want to feel as though they control their own destiny. A lot of them feel like they don't do that anymore, but I don't think they necessarily want like all that much
[00:37:06] hand-holding. But no, it's a difficult thing to to triangulate and the US is not alone in having a lot of resistance and dissatisfaction with with the status quo, you know? I mean again, this is part of why and I'm sure about 2% of your audience will be sympathetic to this, why I have like been more defending of Zephyr Teachout and living in New York is because like he's at least getting the ins and outs. We'll see what happens in in after 4
[00:37:34] years of like New York being like a a basically functional city, right? We have really nice new airports. It's not so much what he's doing that's cool or a hell of a lot of money spent, but like our crime is like relatively low compared to to California. I used to live right near Penn Station Madison Square Garden. Not the nicest neighborhood, not the nicest block, but like I never walked around feeling unsafe there. When I visit SF um then
[00:38:02] you have to be more careful, right? And so I I think like combining functional performance in government with whatever message you want is part of it. I think maybe even like having like a little bit more like optimism too. I'm I'm kind of always a fan of like zigging where other people zag. Obama presented a more optimistic take about like kind of like the American spirit, right? You know, look, I see um all the enthusiasm around the World Cup
[00:38:30] and the Knicks. I I don't want to sound like clichéd, but you know, tonight after we tape, which is taping on a Monday night New York time, right? I can like wander around the streets of New York and there'll be some like Norwegian bar that has Norway game on and like that does make America great and like rediscovering those values. I don't know. I mean, maybe somebody like a you know, I think maybe the most electable Democrat might be somebody
[00:38:54] like a a Jon Ossoff who is who is younger, who is pretty progressive you look at his voting record, but like but isn't like a brawler in quite the same way that that Newsom is trying to be. I mean, the generational part is a lot of this. Uh you know, I think it's insane that we had a candidate who was trying to be president until he was 86 and the alternative is somebody who's trying to be president until he's
[00:39:18] 82. Like I I don't You don't see very many Warren Buffett find If Warren Buffett ran for president, maybe I'd vote for him, right? But like you don't see very many leaders in the first of the world. You don't see very many CEOs or leaders otherwise. I you know, I very much value the contribution of my older friends, right? But like to run the biggest country in the world um as an 82-year-old to me seems kind of
[00:39:40] insane. >> And so there's some basic level of competence that Mondami is showing in New York. He's positive. He's fixing potholes. He's making it, you know, a celebration of whatever the sports teams are. He He's fixing garbage. Like there are some basic things that New York is very much appreciating in quality of life. And that's not something you expect from a Democrat or a socialist. Um and it those kind of like blocking
[00:40:04] and tackling and the high level of engagement um which Trump you mentioned kind of burns people out with that high level of engagement, seems like Mondami comes just under that. He's a little more positive. He doesn't use like the toxicity that much. But he's he's engaging, right? And that seems to be working in New York and with the voter base, no? >> I He's pretty popular here so far. And again, New York is a New York is a
[00:40:30] capitalist city, I think. I think it's different than somewhere like California. It's not kind of as West Coast uh freshwater progressive. New York is a pragmatic place that people from all around the world migrate to. It's a place where there's a lot of wealth all around you. It's also a place that despite seeming like a chaotic show at times. I mean, it's look, it's easy to be optimistic about New York in in mid-June when we have
[00:40:53] like the most beautiful weather of the year and everyone's coming to visit and everything else. But like but New York is a success story in a way that I think California has become less of one, maybe. >> Sorry, let me just ask you a question on this capitalism. Have you seen data that underscores this mainline that everyone's talking about that the youth are kind of disillusioned by capitalism and don't believe in capitalism? I mean, to see
[00:41:18] this happen in a city like New York, to your point, a city that is a bastion of capitalism and progress and opportunity for people for people to put in place a candidate as mayor that denounces the capitalism as a system and talks about collectivism, just seems to indicate that maybe there's a real movement with the youth. I mean, one of the statistics I always quote to people is I think 45 million people graduated college in the
[00:41:42] last decade in the United States that have all of them or a a large percentage of them, I should say, have a pretty significant debt burden that they feel is going to be very hard to get out of. And I would argue that that's a function of the federal student loan program and its underwriting processes and it really condemned people to a life that is going to be very hard to grow your way out of. But what does
[00:42:05] the data tell you about capitalism and what that says about the next cycle here? >> Yeah, where the cut point is is probably around age 40, I'd say. Obviously, it kind of ages by a year every year and like, you know, we saw I saw before the New York mayoral race last year, people who were able to make incredibly accurate, almost block-by-block, neighborhood-by-neighborhood projections based on where Zorn would be good versus
[00:42:30] Cuomo just based on knowing the city and where younger people, younger, more progressive people live, I would say. You know, I think part of it might have to do with economic anxiety for sure. I think it's also your experience like growing up and exactly when you kind of came of age, right? Again, I grew up in like, um, I guess the first election I was old enough to vote in was Clinton >> [clears throat] >> in '96. This is like the triumph
[00:42:55] of the West and capitalism. You had a very robust economy in the 1990s. You had a lot of growth. Um, and by the time you get to your, you know, when the Great Recession hit, you know, I already had by a year, right? I already had a job. I already had a foothold. I think the people kind of like born If you were in college when September 11th happened, like that might be kind of the the cut point, roughly speaking. It doesn't cut quite
[00:43:23] cleanly from Gen X through millennials. It goes a few years into the millennials. Um, but like sometimes I kind of joke, it seems to me like people like in their 40s through early 50s are like the only like sane people in the US, right? That kind of like second half of of Gen X in particular, although we've never had a Gen X president. Kamala Harris would have been a boomer, too, technically speaking. Um, but they're the people who are like,
[00:43:48] "Okay, we grew up and we worked hard and we still felt like more or less the American system worked for us." I I think people wrongly or rightly that are half a generation younger don't have that experience. Also, we should talk about, like as much as I think that in certain ways the media is an overrated storyline. How people consume their news, um you know, you look now at what's happening at CBS and Paramount or CNN or
[00:44:16] whatever else, right? We had an era where you had very centralized news delivery systems under TV and radio. I know I sound like I'm dating myself. The internet's been around for for a long time, but when you have three or four major networks that have a huge amount of editorial control over the message and like I used to work at the New York Times, right? You know, when I first got there, you would still have
[00:44:39] like the page one meeting every day where it's like we are the people the editors at the New York Times like deciding like what is news and what's not and now it's become very decentralized. Obviously, social media plays a role in that, too. I think the evidence is pretty decent at like uh phones and social media affect youth satisfaction a lot. You know, you also have a culture, I think, among liberals where um
[00:45:03] where it's like no longer a stoic culture. It's a culture where maybe you might express your grievance. Ironically, maybe AI will change this a little bit. There's some initial evidence that like the models actually gravitate toward consensus views, expert opinion, sometimes a a jaded or hallucinated version of what the consensus really is. But, you know, Claude or ChatGPT is probably less polarizing than Blue Sky
[00:45:33] or Twitter. >> Let's talk about social media for a second. It used to be a paradigm of you follow people, you build your filter, you have your list, you spend a lot of time curating that. And then TikTok comes out with their for you page, FYP. YouTube goes full algorithm, and now X has gone basically full algorithm. You can follow whoever you like, but your follower count is not your viewer count and engagement count. And obviously,