[00:43:23] cleanly from Gen X through millennials. It goes a few years into the millennials. Um, but like sometimes I kind of joke, it seems to me like people like in their 40s through early 50s are like the only like sane people in the US, right? That kind of like second half of of Gen X in particular, although we've never had a Gen X president. Kamala Harris would have been a boomer, too, technically speaking. Um, but they're the people who are like,
[00:43:48] "Okay, we grew up and we worked hard and we still felt like more or less the American system worked for us." I I think people wrongly or rightly that are half a generation younger don't have that experience. Also, we should talk about, like as much as I think that in certain ways the media is an overrated storyline. How people consume their news, um you know, you look now at what's happening at CBS and Paramount or CNN or
[00:44:16] whatever else, right? We had an era where you had very centralized news delivery systems under TV and radio. I know I sound like I'm dating myself. The internet's been around for for a long time, but when you have three or four major networks that have a huge amount of editorial control over the message and like I used to work at the New York Times, right? You know, when I first got there, you would still have
[00:44:39] like the page one meeting every day where it's like we are the people the editors at the New York Times like deciding like what is news and what's not and now it's become very decentralized. Obviously, social media plays a role in that, too. I think the evidence is pretty decent at like uh phones and social media affect youth satisfaction a lot. You know, you also have a culture, I think, among liberals where um
[00:45:03] where it's like no longer a stoic culture. It's a culture where maybe you might express your grievance. Ironically, maybe AI will change this a little bit. There's some initial evidence that like the models actually gravitate toward consensus views, expert opinion, sometimes a a jaded or hallucinated version of what the consensus really is. But, you know, Claude or ChatGPT is probably less polarizing than Blue Sky
[00:45:33] or Twitter. >> Let's talk about social media for a second. It used to be a paradigm of you follow people, you build your filter, you have your list, you spend a lot of time curating that. And then TikTok comes out with their for you page, FYP. YouTube goes full algorithm, and now X has gone basically full algorithm. You can follow whoever you like, but your follower count is not your viewer count and engagement count. And obviously,
[00:45:56] after Elon took over Twitter, libs, a lot of celebrities decided to leave. Business people stayed, lots of anonymous accounts. It's the free speech platform of all free speech platforms. It's chaotic. But what impact, just in that very tiny nuance of followers to algorithm, has changed and impacted politics? Because it feels like the filter bubble is becoming incredibly pronounced. I mean, you you give two or three things a
[00:46:25] like and now that's the rest of your entire day. >> Yeah, look, for me I don't think a person should have a correlated stance on taxes and abortion and and Gaza and, you know, the free market and whatever else. Um Partisanship is a very powerful force to squish this sort of complicated array of political issues we have in the United States on into into just one dimension, blue versus red or left versus right. And social media, Twitter in particular,
[00:46:55] I think is a very effective mechanism for that. And I get I get totally yelled at for um any bit of heterodoxy, like in particular like saying, "Biden is obviously too old. Democrats you're going to you're going to lose unless you replace him." Like that, even though it's a stance that like literally 80% of voters agree with, will make you like seem like a heretic on Twitter. I've been critical, by the way, of
[00:47:19] of parts of what Elon has done. Although some of the things predate him, like the algorithmic feed um wasn't purely invented by Elon. It was improved or perfected or worsened, depending on your point of view, by the current regime. You know, I do think it's a problem that like like if I choose to follow an account, you Jason of the New York Times or whatever else or NYX account, I want to see their tweets without having to
[00:47:40] give the algorithm additional signal. Like that part bothers me. I don't like the depreciation Twitter debates is about >> frustrating. Like you literally have to favorite or like things in order to keep them in your feed. And I told the Twitter team, "You should have a little button on the follow. Show me every post from this person." Like if I want to get my ski mountains reports or I want my Knicks Fan TV, I want every single post and
[00:48:03] there's no way to do that except like every post and then your feed just goes off the rails. >> Mhm. >> Yeah, I mean it's very Look, I actually think the for you algorithm is pretty decent for what it is. You you have to train it. Like you know, for a while I got a bunch of like fight videos cuz they're compelling. You see it like a fight of teenagers and like oh, I'm I spent 8 minutes seconds watching this or whatever else, right?
[00:48:26] If you click don't show me this anymore, it is pretty responsive and is pretty good. Like the algorithm knows right now, I just want to retweets about the World Cup and is Yiannis getting traded, right? And maybe a little bit about the New York and California elections. Um but I wish there were like you know, I I I don't like any algorithm that like presumes it's like smarter than the user and if I if I log in or if I subscribe
[00:48:50] to somebody and I want to see their tweets and I haven't muted them, then show me their tweets. You can mix in things that you think I'll like. Breaking the algorithmic or the time the chronological feed is also annoying to me, right? Like I want um if I'm watching the World Cup and there's a tweet about a match from 6 hours ago, someone's like oh my god, amazing, right? I'm like what just happened and like it's not surfacing
[00:49:12] things in quite the right order. Um Look, I think a lot of companies kind of make the mistake of uh Twitter was I'm not sure if Twitter was ever going to be like a hugely profitable company. It was a very unique resource for following the news if like I am and like you guys are, at least you Jason are a like total news addict. Like it was a very unique platform and I wish that functionality had been preserved. Again, to be fair,
[00:49:41] um this started before Elon, although it has been continued since. >> Let let's wrap on 2028 and in particular Gavin Newsom. >> Oh no, And that's for the midterms. Predictions for the midterms. >> Lightning round. Prediction for the midterms. >> House House and Senate predictions. What does the data tell us right now? >> So we'll have a model out within a few weeks. Been a little a little bit delayed by the World Cup and they were
[00:50:01] just writing stuff. Prediction markets say Democrats are around I think 80 or 85% to take the House and 40 or 45% to take the Senate. Those both seem pretty reasonable to me. I think if anything it's a little bit low on the House. Um I think it might be more like 85 or 90. My model surprised me sometimes but like look, we've been through a lot of elections that are inherently hard to forecast. The House is the one where
[00:50:25] everything kind of points in the same direction. Democrats um are facing a very unpopular president and an economy that voters have a lot of anxiety about. Trump no new Middle Eastern wars. On top of that, the very very long history of the president's party drawing a backlash and performing poorly at the midterms. The more recent history of incumbent backlash in the US and all around the world. The good results Democrats in
[00:50:51] like New Jersey and Virginia last year and special elections. You know, look, the redistricting thing helps the GOP a little bit in the end but you're fighting against a lot of gravity. Whereas the Senate is more of a more of a numbers game. Even in a pretty blue environment, Democrats have to win some seats in red states. It seems to me that taking a big risk in Maine, which is a state that by all rights they ought
[00:51:17] to win in a D plus eight year in a D plus 10 state, Democrat Plaitner is only two points ahead of Susan Collins. I think I take that polling at face value. I think he is. I take him at 50/50 but like that's a unnecessary risk potentially. Um but look, um the GOP will be able to in these red states a candidate like Talarico, who's also probably in roughly a toss-up race and and Paxton is a far less than ideal Republican nominee.
[00:51:43] Like partisanship is still a powerful force. People are saying why are they kind of attacking Talarico on I think things that are are not above board, you know, critiquing her sexuality or whatever else? Well, cuz Texas is like a really red state and like Trump's not popular, so you're like you're kind of going for like the lowest common denominator, but in our system that works a fair amount of the time. So, it's just a
[00:52:07] a polling and math and numbers game in the Senate. We're going to see more money spent than ever. Whereas the House, 435 seats, I think the partisan gravity is more likely than not just too much for Trump to overcome. >> Is there anything that Trump can do or that could change in a macro out of our control perspective that could shift things more significantly for the House back to the Republicans? >> If he can get gas prices down, it's such
[00:52:33] a visible indicator. You drive by the Chevron station or whatever else, right? You you literally see it. You know, I think if you look at forecasts, there's supposed to be some abatement, but very contingent on how long the conflict war in Iran persists in this quagmire. Um you know, look, maybe if we maybe if we have a AGI, right? >> [laughter] >> By by in October or something, who knows what happens then? But no, it's
[00:53:00] his unfavorable ratings are very entrenched and Democrats are very enthusiastic despite their misgivings about their own party and as much difficulty as I think they'll have in 2028 nominating a candidate to vote for your generic Democrat against a generic Republican is a pretty easy ask for for Democrats who feel like democracy is on the line and like and like so I think that's fairly baked in. As someone who
[00:53:25] builds models, I don't bet on politics, I bet on sports, but I'm always aware that like yeah, there's the 10% chance that the underdog you never see coming prevails, you know, Cape Verde ties with Spain or something, but like that's pretty fundamentally driven, whereas on the on the flip side needing to pick up four Senate seats when you might blow the opportunity in Maine, it's a toss-up. Probably probably slight edge to the GOP with maybe gas
[00:53:53] prices and Iran determining whether it's more truly 50/50 or maybe maybe 60% GOP. >> The chance of winning both is that, you know, 80 * 40 type situation and you're or is it different because of politics and and the way the statistics work? >> They're highly correlated. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> They're they're almost perfectly correlated. So, if the odds of Democrats winning the Senate but not the House are like are like 1%. If you go to Calshi or
[00:54:17] Polymarket, whatever else, it has to be like around 1%. So, conditional on Democrats winning the Senate, they'll almost certainly have won the House, so almost certainly have won governorships, which by the way, these things are important, you know, I think people probably focus too much on the national picture and not enough on on what happens at the state level where people actually have executive power and
[00:54:38] you're picking the the candidates and the policies for the next generation. State legislatures are important. If I were talking to all of the listeners, right, I'd say look for like a a city council candidate for whom your contribution might make a lot of difference. But like, no, if Democrats win the Senate, that means it's a really blue year to overcome the fact that you're winning in places like Ohio, Iowa, Alaska. And if that happens,
[00:55:02] therefore probably the rest of it all the dominoes fall that way. >> All right, Gavin Newsom in 2028. He's in an enigma of a politician. Worst run state in the union as far as I'm concerned, but he's so polished and he speaks so well and people seem to like him with that great hair. What should we take from Gavin Newsom's you know, continued ascension? Am I correct that he's still, you know, on the up? >> He's not. So, we have an article up on
[00:55:30] Silver Bulletin which we'll publish shortly after we finish this podcast. Newsom has fallen in Democratic the polls from around 25% to 15%. He's falling on polling market from like 33% to 22% or something. I think he was benefiting from some degree of name recognition. Whereas now Democrats see a candidate like Jon Ossoff in Georgia. Um another good-looking young guy, but like actually has a credential which Newsom will never have of having won an
[00:56:00] election in a purple state. Um and being a younger, fresher face like we you say about Grant Plantner and Janet Mills in Maine. I think Mills in the absence might be the face of safer choice. I think it's good that Democrats are showing a bias toward younger candidates, right? Like that's a lot of what happened with Zoran too. You know, I wouldn't discount by the way someone like an AOC. I'm not sure if she'll run.
[00:56:26] Someone like Chuck Schumer might be very vulnerable in the 2028 primary for example. She has a lot of time to wait, but like I could see like I again, in New York. It's New York. So therefore you can't extrapolate too much from New York. However, people saying we are sick and tired of the Democratic establishment. I'll take a more centrist version or more left-wing version, but not the same. I think ultimately Newsom
[00:56:47] has like a a hard argument to make. He's arguing for continuity with Kamala Harris and Joe Biden. He's embracing Joe Biden when that strategy has failed electorally. I would argue in California governance-wise as well. It to me it's like a I think Newsom is actually in a pretty defensive position. And that's why you see him having Hunter Biden or something on his podcast. >> yeah, yeah. And AOC is now 36 years old so she
[00:57:14] qualifies. You're You're saying it's not a zero chance that she could become the equivalent of Trump, the outsider, the burn it down, the I'm sick and tired vote? >> She's my bet. Yeah. >> Yes, she's your bet. Okay, what do you think, Nate? Let's talk about AOC. She got that possibility with her charisma? >> We've seen in states like Maine, we may see this in Michigan as well, where yeah, I mean, um look, for many years in the Republican
[00:57:41] primary, the notion was that the establishment always won out. That you'd have like the Rick Santorums or Sarah Palins or Herman Cains or whatever else's who would get 40% of the vote, but the same country club establishment types talked about at the top of the show would prevail at the end of the day. And then it doesn't take that much of perpetually growing dissatisfaction or generational turmoil. You like young
[00:58:04] people in general like don't understand like why the would I care about like a party brand anyway? Like the Democratic Party brand is like a a lame brand as certainly the GOP is. Um and so if you're an avatar for that brand, then like, you know, I look, I think the best candidates, even Obama in 2008, obviously not even Obama, Obama was a highly effective, one of the, you know, generationally charismatic candidate, but even he
[00:58:31] combined on the one hand positioning to the left of Clinton on issues like Iraq, on the other hand, he had a whole whatever, we have gay sisters in blue states, red states, and we play little league in the blue states, and like that whole like post-partisan rhetoric. I think the most effective candidates can exactly what he is. He has made some efforts. I mean, he had Charlie Kirk on his podcast, I think it was last year, right? He has tried to
[00:58:55] moderate, I mean, he's against the billionaire tax. Um he's tried to moderate on some of the culture war issues, like nominated a institutional candidate from California. She didn't come that far from winning, but she lost all the swing states by by, you know, two to five points. And like I don't believe at the end of the day Democrats would be persuaded that like, oh, just cuz you're white [clears throat] and you have different anatomy, like
[00:59:17] that that that will be the one that every Democrat was terrified by in 2024. >> All right. An hour with our guy, Nate Silver. Let us know what you think in the comments. We will have you back on when we do our live election coverage for sure if you're available and the audience always loves when you're on. I don't think he's coming on all night. >> [laughter] >> He's a fan of the pod. He's a fan of all in. He's part of the family. I'll come in
[00:59:43] the next day. Whatever. Whenever you're not securing the bag to secure more Knicks ticket for our repeat next year. Everybody go right now if you hear my voice to the Silver Bullet and pop out a hundy and subscribe. You're going to >> 95 bucks Jason. >> That's what I thought. Rounded up to a hundy but you can listen I know that you probably done the metrics 94.97 [laughter] is the right number. >> the guy at the door. Five bucks for the