[00:41:14] though, like really before we were engulfed in it, we were we were cranking like 8 n 10% GDP. My my my point is just more just that idea of a new social compact, a new set of like agreements. I I I don't know like is is we at a point maybe maybe we do but what does that look like and and where are we going to get the money to to spend it that's the real question and how can we I think Freeberg would say well I'm not going to put words in Freeberg's mouth is that the agreement is actually not about spending more but actually less
[00:41:44] and getting folks to understand that these trade-offs need to happen so I I agree with you and I agree with David on that like I think we have to cut spending in a big way but this goes back to the more issue which Everybody everybody wants more. The irony sorcen and I've shared this point of view many many times but I think when we made the promise when the federal government and uh people who got elected to represent the population and the federal government got elected they said we're going to give you an
[00:42:13] education and then we're going to use federal spending to do that. We're going to give you access to a home. We're going to create this federal home loan program. And in all these cases when there was a promise made on giving you the more it was all about increasing government spending. we're going to give you access to healthcare. And then Medicare became kind of this ballooning spending line because in
[00:42:33] every case because it's not actually a free market, the government doing the spending gets taken advantage of and all the costs underlying that spending line get inflated because there's no natural market force of buy and sell. There's only a market force of buy. And that's why education costs have ballooned. That's why housing has ballooned. That's why medical expenses, pharmaceutical drugs have all ballooned. Because as soon as the government provides that as a service, it completely distorts the
[00:42:57] market and you can never get out of that freefall. So the fundamental challenge is you have to have the more difficult conversation to your point of it's not more, it's less and we're all going to have to kind of deal with that or you're going to do the same thing that everyone's done historically which is wealth taxes and you know growth slow all the stuff that kind of we've seen many times before. So, but this is now you're talking about like a political
[00:43:19] it's almost a paradox or a challenge which is how do you get the public to buy into the idea of less, right? That is the fundamental question. We all know that we have to spend less. I I'm I agree with that. I'm and I and by the way, I feel blessed that I could probably afford afford it but to take less. But the question is, you know, if you don't have it, taking less Yeah. They'll they'll say, "Yeah, rich like you guys can say that.
[00:43:45] Good for you." like that's not fair to me. And I think that's the big issue is the people who would proclaim that would be immediately attacked like you live with less tax the rich and that becomes where Dalio and others have argued historically. You see these notions of civil unrest of civic splits that that that happen. By the way, the book is foundation the foundation series. I don't know why it didn't come to my mind. The idea is called psycho history
[00:44:08] where the guy can actually predict all of these social trends because they're all predictable and they all happen in in cycles. Okay. Can I just throw one other thing in this because I'm so curious about it and I spent a lot of time thinking about Smoot Holly in terms of tariffs. So there's an AR there's a there's a I think a fair argument that tariffs were now t tying to national security resilience today and like we may decide philosophically you want to have an automobile industry in the United States
[00:44:34] because if you let BYD sell cars in this country we would not sell cars in this country and we wouldn't make cars in this country ever again. And you may think that that's a bad idea and you want that to be here. Having said that, if we do this, which we are, we will probably spend more to buy less technologically capable cars 10 years from now than the next time we all, you know, if you go on vacation to Europe or Asia and get in the back of one of these other cars. And how should we think
[00:45:05] about that? That to me is like a real fundamental question about capitalism and also about resilience and national security. What I would offer to you is the way that we should think about this is how do Americans and American society preserve maximum optionality in the face of very difficult decisions in the future. So if geopolitically we are induced into a war, all wars have tremendously bad consequences.
[00:45:35] How would we have the wherewithal to not have to be a part of it? If you look at the last number of wars, these are all ultimately over resources. Right. Right. And if you think about resource independence, there are many, many things today where America is just fundamentally instable because we don't have resource independence. But if we were to get that and then we had the building blocks, we wouldn't actually have to fight a war. Now, there may be other reasons and people may pull us into wars and I I get
[00:46:05] all of that, but I think that that's a really big question. Would I be okay with a less better car, but having a national transportation infrastructure that we control and cannot be turned off by somebody else? On the margins, I would say yeah, I'd be okay with that. And and the interesting part though is there's going to be a premium on that, right? Like we're going to pay more for that. And that may be that may just be the cost of doing business. Sure. And that may that's that may be the cost of strategic flexibility and
[00:46:30] optionality. And I think if you just think about what the downstream consequences of not having that are and maybe and by the way maybe those costs are even higher and and we and those costs don't get added and they don't get added into the model. Right. You're absolutely right. They're they're always higher because they're measured in human lives. It's always higher. It's always more costly. Andrew, who do you sell the uh movie rights to of your book and when's the
[00:46:51] No text movie coming out? Uh haven't sold them yet. We're talking to a couple people. Hopefully, we'll have some news on that sometime soon because it sounds like it's a very peopledriven story. So, it should make for kind of great drama, right? Oh, totally. I mean, I tried to write it I didn't try to write it uh for film per se, but I tried to write it in as cinematic a way as humanly possible given that I was also constrained by,
[00:47:20] you know, I had to have archives and notes and diaries. You know, it looks like a long book. By the way, folks, it's a little bit shorter because there's a hundred some odd pages of endotes at the end uh for those who want to uh and by the way, some of the endotes are kind of fun. Andrew, when you write these things, do you and then when you license it, for example, like when they started to make billions? Yeah. Do you take a strong point of view and how the scripts in that case or the
[00:47:44] screenplay in this case will be written or do you kind of say, "Okay, here's my source material. You guys do the best you can and you kind of do you care who the actors are. Do you care about any of that stuff or do you think it's like, okay, they're licensing it off off on your merry way. Do the best you can? You know, I think actually in this day and age just because it's probably in your mind, right? You have a vision of what this whole thing looks like visually. You probably have faces, right? You probably
[00:48:09] you probably have all of this. So, how do you do you let go of that or Well, I think you first of all, I think you have to let go a little bit at some level because that's just the nature of the business for better or worse. I think right now in this streaming environment, you know, there's sort of two ways you can go sell projects like this. One is you go sell it to a streamer and they go off and they try to
[00:48:30] develop it. They go find the team that does it. The other approach is, you know, find the actor, maybe a director, maybe the writer all at one time and then walk in with it. So in that context, you probably have more of a say in the future of it. you know, right now just the way the business is, you know, the Hollywood's buying a lot less stuff and I think is more interested in sort of the former version where you show up
[00:48:54] with the whole thing sort of prepackaged, pre-planned, but you know, it almost changes, you know, by the month in terms of what they want. Are you uh doing the audio book yourself? Were you reading the I read it. You guys are in the audio business yourselves. So I will tell you I went in it's 13 hours the the book in total. You do it on you know double time and you you'll be done in uh you know six and a half hours. But uh it probably
[00:49:22] took me like 30 hours. It takes a while and they do it. I did do it. Yeah. I did it. It was fun. It was like your first time. Was it your first time reading the audio book? I've never read it before. When when Too Big to Fil came out, we had a British actor do it and I enjoyed read I enjoyed listening to him. He added some gravitas to the to the project because that you know the Brits always sound smarter than us. British. Pretty much pretty much pretty much.
[00:49:47] Okay. Sounds smarter. Sounds smarter. I was going for sounder than us. They do. They do. Well, Andrew, thanks for joining us. This has been awesome. Congrats on the release of your book. Thanks for chatting. Good broad range of topics. I'm buying it. I'm buying it. Yeah, I appreciate guys. Uh, you know, I I enjoy this so much and I listen to you guys so religiously. So, uh, this is a You're the best, bro. Thanks for doing it. I mean, it's it's an incredible
[00:50:10] period of of American history that, to your point, not enough people really understand. I'm glad you so I find it so interesting. That 20 year period, I would say 28 to 48. Well, thank you. Wow. It's got everything. Thank you guys. I appreciate it. All right. We'll talk soon. Thanks, man. See you. Thanks, man. I'm going all in.