[00:00:00] No text Hey, Sorcin. I just went through the comments. The one question keeps coming up over again. Why the are you writing this book? Jesus Christ. What a party pooper. What a party pooper. I don't know, man. I don't think I think it's supposed to be the the book's supposed to be like a beach read. A beach read? Yes. Come on. Did you read it? My god. No. I saw the title. I was like, skip. All right, besties. I think that was
[00:00:24] another epic discussion. People love the interviews. I could hear him talk for hours. Absolutely. We crush your questions a minute. We are giving people ground truth data to underwrite your own opinion. What do you guys think? That was fun. Palimat, you you're going to love these No text characters. I kid you not. I kid you not. The people who do who are involved in this at that time like the the main character. I totally agree with you. I I am a huge to be honest. I've studied this period
[00:00:52] for a while actually. I think it's great that you wrote this book. I think it's incredibly fascinating. We're here with uh with Andrew Ross Sorcin Chimath and I with another all-in interview, riveting. Today we're going to talk about Andrew's new book 1929 and specifically cover why Andrew got into it, what the history teaches us, and are we looking at another 1929 or something different this day and age as
[00:01:17] a lot of people may speculate. But Andrew, thanks for joining Chimath and I to talk about this. Thank you for having me and I love your uh your background there. a a a true image of what was actually happening in October of 1929, crazily enough. That's right. And it was colorized by some AI or something, I think. But, uh, yeah. Great. How and why did you get into this era of 1929, the great stock market crash of 1929. Like, you're a busy guy. You're on TV every day. We see
[00:01:48] you all over. You're at conferences. I saw you at a conference in Southern California this week. Then you're at another conference and you're back in New York. You're very busy. At what point did you say, "Hey, I want to sit down and write a book about this era." Okay, so here's what happened to me. So, I written that book, Too Big to Fail, about the 2008 financial crisis, right? And people used to always say to me after that, they'd get into these like very in-depth conversations about 1929
[00:02:12] or they'd want to know more about 1929. And most people know that something terrible happened in 1929. They know there was a crash in 1929. They oftenimes think it like is the great depression or leads to the great depression. But if you were to ever ask most people now Chimath and you are maybe in a different category and say well who were the people who actually were engaged in this what were they saying to each other who was sleeping with who? Who was trying to over who?
[00:02:37] What was actually happening here and what were the incentives and what were the motivations that led to what clearly were some poor decisions. I couldn't find that. So, I went on a vacation like 10 years ago with my wife, very nerdy, and I like downloaded all these books to my Kindle. And there's some great books, by the way, about this period, don't get me wrong, but they didn't have the sort of character driven story. Like, I loved
[00:03:03] Den of Thieves. I loved Barbarians of the Gate. I loved stories about people. Fabulous books. Fabulous books. What did your wife think when you ignored her the entire vacation you guys were on were just reading books on your Kindle? I mean, I think she thought I was out of my mind, but um No. So, I I read I I read these books and I was like, "Okay, where's the story? Where's the where are the people?" Before you get to the people, can you can you give people a concise
[00:03:22] No text t like I was going to ask you for a TikTok of the overarching economic issues before we get to the sort of the characters because I think Yeah. Because I think what to your point which is an important one, people think it was like a okay stocks went down, right? But the other things like the overp production of the economy, tightening interest rates, the war debt, like all of this stuff was just comingled and
[00:03:54] nobody fully understands that. Can you maybe give folks a precise representation of the setup? The setup. Okay. So, so let's just go back even let's go back to 1919 because actually I think that's a critical year. So prior to 1919 in America, people did not really borrow money. It was like a moral sin to to to get credit. Like people didn't do it. In 1919, General Motors says, "You know what? We're going to start lending people money so that you can buy a car." And that was
[00:04:25] actually like a major inflection point in America because then Sears Robuck clocks what's going on and says, "Okay, we're going to do this too for appliances." And then a guy named Charlie Mitchell who ran a bank called National City which becomes Cityroup says you know what we can do this for stocks. So, you know, and and all of a sudden brokerage houses are opening up, you know, on the corners of streets the way we see Starbucks today.
[00:04:50] It's like literally like that. And you could go into one of these places and you could put a buck down and they would literally loan you $10 off of your dollar. I mean, that's how insane things were. And at the ter there was no risk underwriting of any kind. Zero risk underwriting. But nobody understood what they were. By the way, there's no SEC. There's no regulations. Somebody who who who read this book early said, "Oh, in your
[00:05:13] research, did you get a chance to read any of the prospectuses for the companies?" I was like, "Perspectuses? Like if there was like a leaflet that they handed out on the street, you'd be lucky." So there's no there's nothing. And it's just like a complete go- go era. Forget about 1929. In 1928, the stock market went up 48%. So, people are just, there's just sort of like this, it's a little bit of the
[00:05:37] Chuck Prince when the music's playing, you're dancing, and everybody's dancing, and nobody's even thinking about the music stopping kind of like ever. Now, meanwhile, there's also these technological changes. I mean, huge generational technological changes. In the same way, I think we're probably talking about like AI today, radio. So RCA was like the Nvidia of its time. Everybody wanted into RCA. The stock
[00:06:03] ticker was radio because it was like the it was like going to change the world. And and the other big piece of this was also similar to today this idea of democratizing finance. It was like okay the elites have had their way. They've made all the money. We're now going to let everybody in on the action. Now, the difference between then and now though was there was also like crazy amounts of manipulation, insider trading. As I
[00:06:31] said, there were no rules. Like literally no rules. Nobody's going to jail for this stuff because it didn't there wasn't a rule against it. By the way, it wasn't just individuals that was investing and overextended with margin. But the banks would take depositors money and they were going long the stock market. The the the banks the banks were doing it. By the way, the bank not only the banks, regular old corporations. I mean, could you imagine could you imagine if it turned out that like JP Morgan and
[00:06:54] Goldman was going long in video with depositor funds? That's that's the effective equivalent of what was happening back then, too. You had you had corporations taking their balance sheet, right, and effectively then loaning it out so that people could go buy stocks. That was the other thing was happening. there's a sort of like just the the push towards investing and and overprouction and and all sorts of other things
[00:07:18] created this sort of frothy market. And you had a Fed. You mentioned the Fed, which is an interesting part of this. There was a Fed. It was new. Started in 1913. They knew this was a mess. Like they kept saying to themselves, you read all the diaries and notes that I was in for the last eight years. They knew there was a problem. But they were scared out of their mind about doing what they probably should have done, which was raise interest rates, but they
[00:07:43] couldn't pull off like a vulker kind of thing. Can you sorry, but can you double click into what you said about the fact that there was a social contagion around wealth creation that people felt like the elites had had their way and now it was everybody else's turn. Just describe that like what had caused that and what amplified that social cont and who and who was everyone else? Were these factory workers because we're kind of on the heels of a big industrial buildout.
[00:08:09] So like was it the FA folks were had savings for the first time like where's this coming from? Well, so what's really happening is you have a lot of folks who are coming from the from farms frankly and moving to the big cities for the first time. That's a huge part part of what's happening. So most of the trading I should say is happening in the big cities. It's not happening you know out out in small
[00:08:30] towns. It's happening in big cities for the most part. But but that whole sort of scenario once they're in the big city and they're seeing that there's sort of this wealthy group of people, talk about inequality, this wealthy group of people and they want in on the action. And also by the way the people at the top, meaning the bankers and investors and entrepreneurs are like, we think there's this big opportunity to open this up for the
[00:08:55] little guy or the ordinary investor. We think this is like a huge opportunity. There was a guy named John Rascco who's sort of like the Elon Musk of his era. Um he actually ran General Motors, created the credit program there, then becomes hugely wealthy, then gets into politics by the way, ends up building the Empire State Building. But he was trying to create almost like the first mutual fund because he thought that people should be able to get in on the action the way he
[00:09:21] did. That was like his whole conceit. And he talked about it pretty openly. There was a famous article called everyone ought to be rich. Uh that was his line. everyone ought to be rich. And it also was a time where sort of the American dream shifted a little bit, I think, from sort of a Horatio Alra story a little bit to like a lottery, can we get rich? Like can like the whole idea of capitalism is going to give us this great opportunity? And I, you know, obviously we're today. Do you think that
[00:09:51] radio played a role in that because it amplified these stories and made them go faster and people would just like start to tell these tales and folks started to forget the Horatio Alger part? Like I'm just still trying to understand like I you have you have folks on the farms, right? They're getting educated. The industrial revolution is happening. So they're moving to the city and the radio then is maybe what Instagram is like now. You're seeing people with wealth. You're seeing this wealth that you don't
[00:10:17] have. You aspire to that. Yes. and then something comes in and fills the void. Is that is that kind of the mechanic? I think something fills the void and all of a sudden you now have the opportunity because this the the bank or the brokerage houses are going to lend you all this money and it's not just radio being the communication device. It's really the media. So the other thing that was happening during this period so Time magazine starts in 1923, Forbes
[00:10:42] 1917. All of a sudden, Charlie Mitchell, the CEOs, are now on the cover of magazines the way Babe Ruth and Charles Lindberg had been on the cover. So, sort of the the shift in how people even thought about business. Uh, none of these guys were, you know, famous before the 1920s, but they became famous and everybody wanted, everybody wanted to be them. This was what America was about was this industrialization, right? And this was kind of like, hey, we're pioneering an entirely new world and these are the
[00:11:13] leaders doing it and these are the rock stars that are transform transforming this country. I mean, was that kind of a big part of what was going on at the time? Totally. And everybody wanted to be everybody wanted to be a rockstar. By the way, it's the same way everybody wants to be you David or everybody wants to be Chimatha or they all want to be Elon. Like I think there was a huge thing like okay and here's this
[00:11:31] opportunity and they were being sold the opportunity and given the opportunity not just to invest but again I think that the margin piece of it was such a crucial crucial element. Do you think it's a coincidence, Andrew, that now you're you're publishing this book in 2025, but like how does it feel like eerily similar to you? Like way too similar where you can almost map one to one those boundary conditions then in
[00:11:58] some version of that today like is that is that what like a little bit but not I will say that wasn't my intent like when I got involved in this I just wanted to retell the story and figure out who these guys were. I I ended up after that crazy vacation with my wife. I ended up going to the Baker Library. I happened to be giving a speech at Harvard and I walk in there and I had some time and I asked the librarian. I said, "Can I see these
[00:12:19] boxes?" This guy Thomas Lamont who ran JP Morgan at the time and I said, "Can I look inside these boxes?" And inside the boxes, his secretary is keeping transcripts of his phone calls with Hoover and Roosevelt. Like, by the way, same way like everybody's probably talking to Trump or Trump today. And I'm like, "Oh my god, I haven't seen it." And you're seeing the conversation. And I thought, "Okay, if you could use those transcripts in an
[00:12:44] actual story and then you could figure out I didn't know if other transcripts existed for all the other characters." Yeah. Wow. You could recreate this whole crazy situation, right? But I didn't go into it thinking, okay, this is all onetoone. And I don't think it is onetoone. I think there's a lot of leverage in the system today, but it's a different kind of leverage. I like to believe that there's now an SEC. There's other regulations.
[00:13:08] If you believe it, there is one. Paul's doing a good job. He's there. So, I'm not here to tell you that like we're going off a cliff tomorrow. I think there's probably some things that are happening our economy today that do mirror that period. And I hope there's some lessons in here. But do you think do you think the regulations that have been in put in place over the past hundred years and there have been several cycles, one of which happened after '08, of trying to create new
[00:13:32] protective provisions around how we operate in our financial markets, have they actually changed things enough or does the human element always find its way? It always finds its way to frothiness, to frenzies, to these kind of moments of exuberance, easy money. And this this like will there'll always be a path, you know, whether some people might argue crypto tokens, there was an NFT moment a few years ago. Wherever the regulation kind of path of least resistance is, that's where everyone goes.
[00:14:00] Totally. That's always going to be the case. That's the human condition. We all want more. You know, there's that great line in um it's it's it's a Wall Street 2 uh where I think Michael Douglas says to Shai Labuff, I thought the second Wall Street was not as good as the first one, by the way. Says says something like, "What's your number?" and he looks at him and he goes, "More." Right? And and that's that's humans. That's humans. And that's humans. And more means we're
[00:14:25] all trying to figure out how we're going to get to more. And I think that that was what was going on then. To some degree, it's what's going on now. I think it's always going on. It never changes. It's not like there's some unique moment today. Maybe there's technology that's kind of unlocked this kind of new cycle. Look, the other piece of this and it was actually a lesson for me that I still grapple with today. I think people think the word speculation is like a dirty
[00:14:50] word. And the truth is, having now written this book and too big to fail and just spending, you know, all this time reporting on all this, you need speculation. Speculation is the twin of innovation. Putting your capital at risk. There is no it's price discovery. It's risk discovery. It is the hard underbelly of innovation. I completely agree with there is no innovation without some speculation. Elon Musk would not have created Tesla and said somebody speculated on him early when it all
[00:15:20] seemed totally insane. No. And also he's probably speculated himself in 50 different ideas that never saw the light of day. That's what it means. It's like you're investing risk capital. That capital is not always money. It's a lot of time it's time and reputation as well. It's convincing other people to come work on something and you're doing it speculatively. That's what Silicon Valley does. Betting on the come.
[00:15:42] And so then the question becomes, how do you create an environment where you can have speculation? Not just have it, but encourage it, but not let it get out of control, right? Like that is the sort of fundamental question. What ends up happening, Andrew, is like no one gives a when a big fund manager or a big bank or some kind of dark pool of capital loses loses money. But when it hits the consumer, when it hits the individual, then there's this rush to