[00:13:32] protective provisions around how we operate in our financial markets, have they actually changed things enough or does the human element always find its way? It always finds its way to frothiness, to frenzies, to these kind of moments of exuberance, easy money. And this this like will there'll always be a path, you know, whether some people might argue crypto tokens, there was an NFT moment a few years ago. Wherever the regulation kind of path of least resistance is, that's where everyone goes.
[00:14:00] Totally. That's always going to be the case. That's the human condition. We all want more. You know, there's that great line in um it's it's it's a Wall Street 2 uh where I think Michael Douglas says to Shai Labuff, I thought the second Wall Street was not as good as the first one, by the way. Says says something like, "What's your number?" and he looks at him and he goes, "More." Right? And and that's that's humans. That's humans. And that's humans. And more means we're
[00:14:25] all trying to figure out how we're going to get to more. And I think that that was what was going on then. To some degree, it's what's going on now. I think it's always going on. It never changes. It's not like there's some unique moment today. Maybe there's technology that's kind of unlocked this kind of new cycle. Look, the other piece of this and it was actually a lesson for me that I still grapple with today. I think people think the word speculation is like a dirty
[00:14:50] word. And the truth is, having now written this book and too big to fail and just spending, you know, all this time reporting on all this, you need speculation. Speculation is the twin of innovation. Putting your capital at risk. There is no it's price discovery. It's risk discovery. It is the hard underbelly of innovation. I completely agree with there is no innovation without some speculation. Elon Musk would not have created Tesla and said somebody speculated on him early when it all
[00:15:20] seemed totally insane. No. And also he's probably speculated himself in 50 different ideas that never saw the light of day. That's what it means. It's like you're investing risk capital. That capital is not always money. It's a lot of time it's time and reputation as well. It's convincing other people to come work on something and you're doing it speculatively. That's what Silicon Valley does. Betting on the come.
[00:15:42] And so then the question becomes, how do you create an environment where you can have speculation? Not just have it, but encourage it, but not let it get out of control, right? Like that is the sort of fundamental question. What ends up happening, Andrew, is like no one gives a when a big fund manager or a big bank or some kind of dark pool of capital loses loses money. But when it hits the consumer, when it hits the individual, then there's this rush to
[00:16:14] protection. It's like we need to protect the system. We need to kind of protect the consumer because they're always the ones that get taken advantage of. Is that kind of fair? And if as you look at what happened coming out of 100% out of08, look, you can look at both of those things. You could look at, by the way, I think an interesting one because we're now dealing with it now is the accredited investor rule. So, you know, by the way, that really goes back to the
[00:16:35] 19 late 1930s or 1940. You know, the idea was we only wanted the wealthy to be able to have opportunities to invest in private companies because they were the only ones that we thought should be prepared to lose the money and we didn't want the little guy to lose the money. Here we are now in uh you know 2025 and there's a lot of folks saying you know I want I want the access. I want the opportunity. And you know sometimes like I remember Chimath you and I probably talked about this years ago. I remember
[00:17:08] I either talk about like GameStop or some of these other companies and tell people you know oh you got to be careful guys this could go wrong. I said that a little bit some about spacky stuff and some other things and people like Sorcin stop it you're not protecting me you're protecting the man. You're protecting the man and it was sort of regulatory capture. It's a very interesting concept. So I anyway I haven't come up with a you know
[00:17:32] a neat answer about that but I do think about it a lot. Well to your point I think the the 40s act 1940 act I think it was it's been a very complicated piece of legislation because if you fast forward to today we're still trying to unwind and fit a square peg into a round hole if you will. The entire crypto economy contorts itself around the 40 act right? All these BDCs contort itself. private credit contorts itself and why? Well,
[00:18:00] right now we don't have the regulatory will to just go and have a wholesale rip and replace of what is really old legislation. I think Scott, do you want to talk about the Kimat? Do you want to just describe the 40s act? Like what's in it? Well, it it was basically written as a way to sort of try to delineate what is a security, what is allowed to be traded, what kind of businesses can be public. And at the time with the
[00:18:25] understanding that they had of the economy, it all made sense. There was a pretty bright line of here's a commodity, here's a security, and here's what is allowed. The problem is, as we've seen, is that businesses today in 2025 are way too dynamic, and they don't map to the brittle definitions of 80 years ago. The problem is that when you try to go and rewrite those rules, there isn't the legislative will because what Andrew says comes up over and over again, which is the fear of what could
[00:18:56] go wrong stops people from doing what I think could go right and that has pretty profound consequences. I think I think in part when you look at what happened in GFC, you can pull the string back to to the 1940s and the 40 act and people's reaction to to regulations. the savings and loan crisis. That's another one that was absolutely unnecessary but happened because we tried to contort ourselves to expand the economy in ways that were brittle. Andrew, I want to ask you a question, which is if we go back to the
[00:19:24] No text 29, so we we have a good sense of the the setup. Yeah. Can you explain the big characters and who they were and the roles that they were playing? Okay. So there's there's there's two there's a whole bunch of characters, but I'd say there's two main characters in this book that really drive the storyline. One is Charlie Mitchell, this fellow who runs National City. He is the Jaime Diamond of his time in terms of fame. He might actually be more like Michael Milin because he he really does develop sort of credit for the public. Michael
[00:19:59] of course did it uh for businesses later but um he they used to call him Sunshine Charlie and he was on the board of the New York Fed. He was constantly calling for lower interest rates interestingly during all of this and he was the guy who was not just loaning to uh speculators and stockholders. He was also uh loaning money to different brokerage houses across the country. On the other side of the story in Washington is a guy who you probably heard of or know named Carter
[00:20:30] Glass. Yeah. Carter Glass was the Elizabeth Warren of his time or maybe even like AOC. AOC. Yeah. And he would, by the way, uh he was like a a racist Elizabeth Warren, interestingly, uh given the weird things going on down there at the time. Anyway, he would rail for years about this thing that he described as mitchellism. He believed that Charlie Mitchell and what Charlie Mitchell was doing was going to
[00:20:56] upend the economy effectively. And as the story plays out, they are sort of pitted against each other. One of the things that Charlie does is he defies or at least appears at one point to defy the Federal Reserve, which is trying to clamp down on speculation. They don't try to raise interest rates. What they weirdly do is they send a letter to all the banks saying, "Please stop lending to speculators." And the banks don't know what that even means. So they stop
[00:21:20] lending basically to everybody. And Charlie says, "We're not going to have that. So we're going to start lending ourselves." And that sort of creates this whole other dynamic which leads him to end up being in front of Congress. And I don't want to give away the story, but he does get arrested on the steps of his own home for doing some crazy things later in the story. But those two sort of play a big role. Then you get to see how Glass Stebo came about, which by the
[00:21:45] way is shocking because it is not what you would think at all. It almost has nothing to do I don't want to say it has nothing to do with breaking the banks apart for like political reasons, but it actually has to do with uh business reasons, meaning there was like some major bank money and lobbying going on behind the scenes to f over JP Morgan by the guys who were running Chase and the Rockefellers. So, it's it's wild. The story is wild. Okay. So, just the summary, but the glass deagle I think as
[00:22:14] I understand it, but tell me basically separates commercial banks and investment banks. Separate separates commercial banks and investment banks and then sets up the FDI basically and sets up the FDI, right? Again, when you see how that all came together, the FDI piece of it, it the the backstory of like these laws. It's not It's not coming from consumer protection as much as you're saying lobbying to try to basically like marginalize the 800 pound gorilla.
[00:22:42] Exactly. Exactly. And and you'll see it. You will be in the room with these people literally going in there sitting in the White House begging Roosevelt to do this. And and by the way, Carter Glass is actually unhappy about it. I found letters where Carter Glass is like this bill is getting taken away from me and is basically being taken over by the bankers which is almost hilarious because Elizabeth Warren loves to cite
[00:23:07] this bill as sort of some panacea. Andrew as you look at markets today just to come back to the modern era I don't want to ask you the the simple like draw the parallels but are are we in and and I've heard you ask this question a lot lately like are we in a monetary bubble? Are we in an inflationary bubble? Are we in a speculative bubble? Are we in no bubble? So, I'm assuming we're in some bubble and we just don't know when it's going to pop of some sort. And by the way, we
[00:23:39] don't know how big it's going to pop either. You don't It doesn't have to be 1929. It could be 1999, could be 2008, could be smaller than that. I I don't know. Do I think that there's leverage? I mean, you guys talk about this AI investment phenomenon that's taking place right now. And for the most part, the big corporations are spending real cash. So, it's not that's not leverage. But you look at a lot of the real estate plays, the energy plays that sort of on
[00:24:06] the periphery of this, there's a lot of leverage there. I think the the private credit world, we don't really know where all the leverage lies right now. Now, I don't think that any of that is as leveraged as what we were talking about this like 10 to one situation in 1929 or maybe or even like the subprime situation in 2008. But I don't know, at some point you start to look at some of these, you know, like the Nvidia OpenAI deal or the AMD deal and there is a
[00:24:31] little bit of a circular kind of thing going on there uh for now. And I just don't know where but that could be we could still be years we could still be years away from this and by the way it could work out on the other end. But what about like government monetary fiscal issues? the central bank monetary policy interest rates and then the fiscal issue, the government spending right now. Ultimately, if you have a devaluation of the dollar, we're seeing gold at 4,000
[00:24:58] bucks an ounce. We're seeing the dollar basket trade down. I think one of the worst years we've ever seen this year. Uh does that ultimately translate into a higher index on the stock market because the dollar is worth less? I mean should you know could this actually be more of a monetary or fiscal kind of problem than it is a speculative kind of problem? Well so you would think it would be but then explain. So yes I think like the
[00:25:21] traditional the classic economist would say this you know these things should not be happening at the same time meaning look at the price of equities look at the price of gold look at the price of you know US treasuries right now. It doesn't at least classically it shouldn't shouldn't line up the way it's lining up right now. So I I just don't know. I would have thought that the investor class would have wanted to charge us a higher premium for our bonds
[00:25:46] these days for a whole bunch of reasons, but they don't. Uh maybe that's just like life is relative and other countries are, you know, not doing as well and so we're still the the prettiest girl at the dance. I think that's exactly right. But we've never seen so much capital so so much printing happening as we see today. I mean the 7% debt to GDP in peace time with an expanding economy. Never seen that before.
[00:26:10] Totally. But then if that's the case, you'd think that we'd all have our money in Bitcoin and or gold, but but we don't. Why is that? I don't know. How do you invest? Anyone ever ask you No text that? Most people don't ask me that. And the truth is I'm not allowed to invest in individual stocks. It's actually given what I do for a living. That's part of the part of the deal part of the the nunnery that I have to live in. You're long the index. I'm long the index. I am long Bitcoin. Bitcoin gold.
[00:26:42] I'm I'm long the indexes. And uh no, I I I by the way, I wish I could. I thought for many many years, it's probably shifted now, but for years upon years, I was always I think Chimath and I have talked about this. I was always worried about buying Bitcoin because I didn't know I I didn't want to be on TV or in the papers. Oh, I I would do it. I came on CNBC and I would tell Sorcin to buy it 100 a coin, 200 coin. Sorcin would show me a clip of Charlie Munger telling me that it was poison and he would say,
[00:27:11] "Mon, what do you think?" And I said, "I have tremendous respect for Charlie and Warren, but they're wrong." I remember those moments fondly and sadly because I should have I should have listened. I should have listened. But so, okay, so you have a very balanced kind of portfolio. Pretty vanilla down the middle. super I'm not going to get index funds I'm not going to get rich unfortunately uh on being a journalist that restricts you from
[00:27:36] access to the markets I mean you you seem to have a good pulse on what's going on but really what matters in markets is having a pulse on what the actors in the markets are doing right and you're not able to to act on it I have misgivings about it how about that you're you're the character in your show acts where you have all the inside info but you can't do anything about it can't do anything about Yeah, exactly. But that's the point. I get it.
[00:28:00] I I knew that's what I was signing up for, so I'm I'm I'm cool with it. I mean, do you like do you like being a journalist? I mean, do you like sitting as a speculator or an observer versus being an actor? I mean, have you ever thought like, man, I really understand markets. I really understand the parallels to history. I've got a good sense of this. I I feel like I should play a role. I want to play a role. I can make money. I think about that. I've thought about
[00:28:21] that for years to totally uh about, you know, could I could I be an actor? could I play a role? And I often go back to the idea and may and look, maybe this is not the right way to think about it, but I feel like I've managed to have hopefully some semblance of credibility with some people by doing it this way. And I'm and I've been able to be hopefully a a good part of the conversation and be engaged in a lot of things. Maybe I could do that as as as a sort of a direct actor,
[00:28:50] too. I don't know. I also think, by the way, journalism seems to be changing. MSM, legacy media. I mean, by the way, there's a lot of people or you could start a podcast and you could just do whatever you want to do. So, I don't know. I don't know what the right answer is. Tell us who are the characters in the play today. Who are who are the actors? Who are the main actors that you see in That's a good question. Yeah. Uh, the main actors, well, I think you'd
[00:29:13] probably think about them in a couple different ways. You sort of think about on the financial side and probably the tech side and where they sort of come together. So, I think obviously and then the government piece. So obviously the president, Scott, Howard on on the sort of business end of things inside the inside the government. And then I think in the banking or classic banking world, you'd say that probably Jamie Diamond and Larry Frink are probably the most sort of powerful players in the sort of
[00:29:42] traditional legacy piece, but then you'd probably give a nod to Brian Armstrong at Coinbase as sort of being one of the sort of OGs in sort of wherever you think crypto goes. By the way, I'd probably hats off to uh to Vlad Tennov who I think's been sort of very outspoken sort of talk about democratizing finance, right? Like he's sort of represents that. But then you tell me I mean I think Sam Alman and