[00:27:36] access to the markets I mean you you seem to have a good pulse on what's going on but really what matters in markets is having a pulse on what the actors in the markets are doing right and you're not able to to act on it I have misgivings about it how about that you're you're the character in your show acts where you have all the inside info but you can't do anything about it can't do anything about Yeah, exactly. But that's the point. I get it.
[00:28:00] I I knew that's what I was signing up for, so I'm I'm I'm cool with it. I mean, do you like do you like being a journalist? I mean, do you like sitting as a speculator or an observer versus being an actor? I mean, have you ever thought like, man, I really understand markets. I really understand the parallels to history. I've got a good sense of this. I I feel like I should play a role. I want to play a role. I can make money. I think about that. I've thought about
[00:28:21] that for years to totally uh about, you know, could I could I be an actor? could I play a role? And I often go back to the idea and may and look, maybe this is not the right way to think about it, but I feel like I've managed to have hopefully some semblance of credibility with some people by doing it this way. And I'm and I've been able to be hopefully a a good part of the conversation and be engaged in a lot of things. Maybe I could do that as as as a sort of a direct actor,
[00:28:50] too. I don't know. I also think, by the way, journalism seems to be changing. MSM, legacy media. I mean, by the way, there's a lot of people or you could start a podcast and you could just do whatever you want to do. So, I don't know. I don't know what the right answer is. Tell us who are the characters in the play today. Who are who are the actors? Who are the main actors that you see in That's a good question. Yeah. Uh, the main actors, well, I think you'd
[00:29:13] probably think about them in a couple different ways. You sort of think about on the financial side and probably the tech side and where they sort of come together. So, I think obviously and then the government piece. So obviously the president, Scott, Howard on on the sort of business end of things inside the inside the government. And then I think in the banking or classic banking world, you'd say that probably Jamie Diamond and Larry Frink are probably the most sort of powerful players in the sort of
[00:29:42] traditional legacy piece, but then you'd probably give a nod to Brian Armstrong at Coinbase as sort of being one of the sort of OGs in sort of wherever you think crypto goes. By the way, I'd probably hats off to uh to Vlad Tennov who I think's been sort of very outspoken sort of talk about democratizing finance, right? Like he's sort of represents that. But then you tell me I mean I think Sam Alman and
[00:30:05] Elon and wherever you think AI is headed next and the Google guys. But it's interesting because you're No text playing you're saying that technology particularly AI is playing a key role in Yes. fundamentally. It seems like it is. Do you think you think that's true? Well, I'm asking because you also I mean the capital that's moving through banks. The there's there's a whole another set of industries that generate trillions of
[00:30:28] dollars of revenue that seem to be largely ignored in the conversation about where the economy where the global economy is, where it's headed, where markets are headed. It's all about AI, right? I mean, and I I think that's like but that's because and I guess the question is like is that a media thing or is that like a real economy thing? I think it's a real economy thing because I think if you if you x out the mag 7
[00:30:51] Yeah. all of a sudden the economy does not look nearly the same. I mean I don't want to say we're levitating but you know we're either I saw a data point yesterday that said the GDP quarterly GDP was like flat excluding data center spending. Does that sound right to you? Did you see that? It's definitely 100 to 200 basis points of GDP. Yeah. So sure. So, so let's say if you if you X out it if you X out the AI boom where
[00:31:18] you know where do you really stand? I think that's a real real life question. I think the reason why no one's focused on the rest of the economy first of all the AI story I think is the more exciting part but it is what I think is I don't want to say propping up the economy but it's keeping the economy well I would I would flip it on its ear. I don't I think that those comparisons are kind of dumb because at every point in the economy there are these dynamic reallocation of resources and assets.
[00:31:42] Things are important at different times. I think the thing with the AI thing is like what is every company doing to figure out what they look like in a world of AI and if they're not going to spend that amount of time, their productivity is probably going to on the margin shrink to a net new company that just does what they do just efficiently and better. That's just the cycle of creative destruction we've seen at every point of every meaningful technology.
[00:32:07] So you think we need to be talking about this much more outside of the sort of like tech and data centers and I made this Yeah, I made this comment. All the private equity wives got their husbands to come in and rail at me in the comments and I said, you know, the the least success I've had at this software company I started has been selling into private equity. It's like I have Fortune 500 and Fortune 1000 customers lining
[00:32:30] out the door. I couldn't sell to one single private equity company what is effectively a platform that uses AI to rewrite all your software. And I'm like, but this is the first company that should be in line. And what it goes to is that their heads are firmly in the sand. And I think that's not a a decision on technology. It's a psychological decision. So I think the weird thing with AI is that it pushes
[00:32:55] people to a place of psychological insecurity. And I think that they think I don't want this to be my problem. I need to just wait this out and somebody else will deal with it in the future. That's very different than other technology arcs like you know in the dot bubble. That's not what we live through. In the social bubble or the mobile bubble it was always like okay this seems interesting. Let's figure out how to embrace it take advantage of it. This is
[00:33:19] the one where many people are like nope I'm just nope. All right but here's the question. So, you know, 1932 comes around and we had unemployment in this country at 25%. 25%. Yeah. It was pretty crazy. Yeah. If the AI boom is as successful as I think we're all excited it could be and it affects every industry in every way and all the things we're we're discussing here, there need to be massive productivity gains. Like massive, like crazy. And invariably,
[00:33:50] productivity gains are sort of a euphemism for cutting costs in some other way. And that ultimately probably is going to have an impact on employment in this country and do more things or do more things. And the question is which one is it? Or by the way, is it a combination of both? I would I would probably it's a combo. You highra people so that they spend less time doing drudgery and you allow them to work on more important
[00:34:14] things. Like I'll give you an example. My wife runs a life sciences business and what's funny is when she looks at AI, she's like, "All of this stuff is trying to sell me speed." And she's like, "I don't want speed. I want quality." She's like, "I'm not trying to make 500 molecules tomorrow. I'm trying to make the right molecule for the right disease, and I'm happy to take five or six years to do it." And right now I think we're
[00:34:40] still in the novelty slopware phase of AI where most of it is about speed and you know you're spending a lot of money to try to get crappy outcomes out faster. Eventually we'll replace that with quality outcomes and they'll take a lot more time and I think that that's when you'll have the real productivity improvements. Back to life sciences like these guys want to get drugs for every person, right? That's not a tomorrow
[00:35:05] thing. That's not like type it in in English and all of a sudden pops out the other end. And so I think we're going to have to take a lot more time. That's when this stuff becomes really real and that's going to be very exciting. No text Andrew, did we see coming out of the crash of 1929 a big move towards socialism in this country saying, "Hey, capitalism has failed us." And you know, how do you kind of speak to the rise of socialism
[00:35:29] today and the argument that capitalism's failed most Americans? Well, so yes, sorry. And to add on to that, do you think the New Deal would have looked the same or would there have even been a New Deal if there hadn't been a crash in 2019? Okay, so two quick answers. U yes, that conversation happened, but not nearly as quickly as it happened, for example, after GFC of 2008. So I remember being down at like Zucati Park, Wall Street, Occupy Wall Street, all of this conversation we're having now about
[00:35:59] socialism versus capitalism. Like that happened immediately. In 1929, that conversation did not happen immediately. Part of the reason it didn't happen um is because there was sort of like a slow roll on the economy and even the market. So there was sort of a disconnect between the economy and the market. People forget at the end of 29 the stock market actually was down only 17% by the end and so people thought it was actually going to come back. There were times when it actually seemed to be coming back and and Hoover had this idea
[00:36:31] that he could it was almost like a psychological problem and that the market and the economy were detached from each other. He then starts making all of these sort of frankly mistakes. Obviously the Fed doesn't uh flood the system. Hoover decides he wants to raise taxes. He does smooth Smoot Holly with tariffs. That's something he had pledged to do to try to get farmers to actually vote for him. And he thought that was like a pledge that he had to keep. And
[00:36:54] so there's a whole sort of set of policies that came into play. And the Hoovervilles don't show up in these sort of like tented camps, sort of think Zucati Park. That doesn't happen really till 1932. And when you go back and look at why Roosevelt won, it wasn't actually on the economy. If you go and look at the polls, it was over prohibition crazily enough. And so it didn't have that sort of social effect. Having said
[00:37:23] that, you know, famously Roosevelt, you know, on his inauguration day goes after the bankers in the inaugural address. And then, of course, the New Deal shuts down the banks, has what was equivalent of national holiday. 9,000 banks go out of business, right? and and then that's sort of when the conversation about capitalism and socialism starts to rear its head. I think it's because at that point in American history, we had not yet made the promise to the average American that they have the right or the opportunity
[00:37:52] to buy a home, to get a a college education, to have progressive income every year. As you point out, most folks were transitioning from an agrarian to an industrial economy. And so the big transition in life had been, "Wow, I can get an apartment. I don't have to work 12 hours a day grueling physical labor in the fields. I can actually live and walk to a grocery store and get amazing food and meet people and socialize and live in this amazing city. And it was
[00:38:17] before we had made all of these promises that I think led to these expectations that folks then end up feeling disappointed by and they blame it all on the failure of capitalism. My personal opinion as you know is that it's fundamentally a function of overspending by the government and overpromising rather than allowing natural market forces to bring everyone up which um fundamentally I think created and creates a lot of the the distrust and the the issues we face. Can I just add
[00:38:42] on top of that because you know you're describing what I always think of as sort of the Leave it to Beaver American dream that people sort of have in their mind which is really more of like a 1950s style dream and actually was a function I think of a postworld war situation where where the where the country was we were monopoly power everybody else was out of business. This is also the time like the reason why unions even worked I would
[00:39:07] argue for in large part was because there was this period of time where we were the only players in town and so we could we could charge monopoly rents for a lot of things and people could buy a house with a white fence and have two kids and and have an ed all of those things that we uh now say are the dream. I'm look there's some people who think that was an aberration in history. I I hope it wasn't, but I'm saying there were a lot of forces at play that
[00:39:33] created that dream, but I don't think that was the dream in 1929. Yeah. Do you buy into Ray Ray Dalio's points of view that we're at the end of an empire, end of a cycle? I hope we're not. I hope we're not. I you you look I think I think you look at a lot of the things going on right now just with how much debt we have. I I sort of look at the Neil Ferguson view of the world which maybe lines up pretty directly with uh with Gallia which is
[00:39:59] that when you get uh you know GDP you start to look at like defense spending as a percentage of GDP there is this point at which at least historically you have like a real problem um and that sort of has set it created the end of the empire. I think that happens in his view of the world in like 19 in 2040 so maybe there's still time to turn it around. I don't know what you What about you? It's a very exact forecast 2040.
[00:40:25] You ever read that um what's that series the Asimov series on uh where they've got this like social forecasting capability? Sorry, totally forgot. Sorin, do you think that if you look at GDP going through the crash, it No text basically like cratered and then I mean what whatever we think of the New Deal, I think the the reality is that it it just created an enormous amount of investment that then just turned GDP
[00:40:51] around. Is there a version of the New Deal that America needs to do today? Is there a new compact we need to have with our citizenry today? Well, but so there's two things that happened though. there's the New Deal and then World War II. I mean, so yeah, I think you have to sort of lump them in a way together in terms of the spending profile and why we were spending and and well, even I think even in the mid-30s
[00:41:14] though, like really before we were engulfed in it, we were we were cranking like 8 n 10% GDP. My my my point is just more just that idea of a new social compact, a new set of like agreements. I I I don't know like is is we at a point maybe maybe we do but what does that look like and and where are we going to get the money to to spend it that's the real question and how can we I think Freeberg would say well I'm not going to put words in Freeberg's mouth is that the agreement is actually not about spending more but actually less
[00:41:44] and getting folks to understand that these trade-offs need to happen so I I agree with you and I agree with David on that like I think we have to cut spending in a big way but this goes back to the more issue which Everybody everybody wants more. The irony sorcen and I've shared this point of view many many times but I think when we made the promise when the federal government and uh people who got elected to represent the population and the federal government got elected they said we're going to give you an
[00:42:13] education and then we're going to use federal spending to do that. We're going to give you access to a home. We're going to create this federal home loan program. And in all these cases when there was a promise made on giving you the more it was all about increasing government spending. we're going to give you access to healthcare. And then Medicare became kind of this ballooning spending line because in
[00:42:33] every case because it's not actually a free market, the government doing the spending gets taken advantage of and all the costs underlying that spending line get inflated because there's no natural market force of buy and sell. There's only a market force of buy. And that's why education costs have ballooned. That's why housing has ballooned. That's why medical expenses, pharmaceutical drugs have all ballooned. Because as soon as the government provides that as a service, it completely distorts the
[00:42:57] market and you can never get out of that freefall. So the fundamental challenge is you have to have the more difficult conversation to your point of it's not more, it's less and we're all going to have to kind of deal with that or you're going to do the same thing that everyone's done historically which is wealth taxes and you know growth slow all the stuff that kind of we've seen many times before. So, but this is now you're talking about like a political
[00:43:19] it's almost a paradox or a challenge which is how do you get the public to buy into the idea of less, right? That is the fundamental question. We all know that we have to spend less. I I'm I agree with that. I'm and I and by the way, I feel blessed that I could probably afford afford it but to take less. But the question is, you know, if you don't have it, taking less Yeah. They'll they'll say, "Yeah, rich like you guys can say that.