[00:15:20] talk about this a lot, but I just love your perspective from where we sit today and how this all kind of >> um >> Yeah, I think the the fundamental thing that I think we're observing is good old-fashioned competition, right? I mean, for me, if I look back at it, we were we had like some real great closed source assets, Windows. What was the check against it? It was of course the Mac, but Linux >> uh we had a great closed source product
[00:15:44] called SQL Server. What was the check against it? there was always a substitute called Postgress or MySQL. So I think that's what's happening a little bit of it is there's real competition between closed source and the open- source check is real. Um, and that's good quite frankly uh because without it I don't think we're going to have a broad frontier ecosystem or broad diffusion because otherwise we'll just
[00:16:07] we'll be back to some uh you know mainframe uh locket that's just not uh a thing to your point about if anything given that we will now hopefully continue to have a much richer choice in every layer. Right. So to me hopefully we can start building these AI because today the royalty of an AI product all going to just the model layer doesn't make sense if you really want to build a product company right it just cannot be
[00:16:37] in fact if anything like that's the same thing right which is if you take the database if there was no open-source check on closed source uh the prices wouldn't have been at a place where people could have built the app tier successfully and the with a margin and so I think the apps are going to become you know much more viable economically which is great for the ecosystem. uh there are going to be all these other
[00:16:59] layers of middleware call it right which is hey what's my memory system what's my harness and orchestration layer so there's going to be a very rich tools ecosystem there the model companies will do fine uh in fact you know the paro they can manage the token pricing based on their model family if anything I want them to work on even the KV you know these these standards >> such that we can use multiple model f in
[00:17:24] fact it's better for them in fact I worked on Windows interrupt with Unix first. >> In fact, it was counterintuitive, right? We used to think, oh my god, this interrupt means we'll be less used except we were more used. >> In fact, we became weirdly enough because there were so many variants of Unix at that time that Windows interrupt made Unix better and Windows better. And in fact, we were able to penetrate the
[00:17:49] enterprise primarily because we did that interrupt work. And so that's at least how I think about it. Satya one of these we're in this interesting moment where on the one hand you have these experts asking for regulation asking for oversight governance it typically always leads to some restriction of freedom and general society are put in a position where now we have to opine on whether this is right or wrong but then on the other side most
[00:18:22] people's lived experience is not this magical productivity boost of AI. At best, it's integrating our Apple Eyewatch data to tell us why we're sleeping less. That's like functionally the bar for most people. Or why is my kid an into chat GPT? Uh so can you just help us bridge this? I mean, you see so many enterprise applications. Where's the magic? Like where is the where are the gains in profits? Where are the huge upside breakthroughs that
[00:18:52] AI is creating that will somehow make all of this tension understandable for everybody? >> Yeah, it's a great it's a great point. I mean, I think this is the real question which is how do we truly see this in the productivity stats? How do we really see it in the GDP growth? That's broadbased. It's not just supplier >> or supply side. Um I mean the the one example that I I love and I get back to in fact healthcare is a good one right
[00:19:20] if you think about um health care and even the simple doctor patient interaction in our case we have this thing called DAX copilot um that's the place which is the most tangible example I can always point to when a doctor can spend more time with the patient caring for them versus just the entry into an EMR system that's a good productivity gain If it can triage uh the inbox for the doctor so that they can be more
[00:19:49] responsive uh that's helpful for uh uh for the patient and the care system the administrator in fact keying like the insure like because it's the triangulation of the pay patient and the health system. Yeah. Uh that's of all in fact most of healthcare is sort of all workflow cost. Uh so taming of that workflow complexity that's a helpful thing. But do you see that in Microsoft with the people that you're helping?
[00:20:16] >> Yeah, absolutely. We see that and and by the way even in in simple co-pilot cases, right, which is if you look at the amount most people think about jobs which I think there is going to be displacement there is but the bottom line is what are the new jobs that get created uh is going to be one of the key aspects of it. But also a lot of knowledge work unfortunately is drudgery right who you know I get up in the
[00:20:40] morning and I think about like man all I do is email triage right you know >> uh what if uh even just these workflows that are taking away time from things that you could be spending time on >> okay well you're bring you're bringing up this great point if you go all the way back to like the turn of the century the industrial revolution when we had a 7-day work week you know a lot of people forget why did we introduce the weekends
[00:21:02] it was to sort of manage the tension between different uh religious groups that had to work in the same factory. And then when you look at long run GDP outside of some exogenous events, it sort of is, you know, between two and 400 basis points. >> And so what happens is as productivity boosts come in, >> human work steps back and you kind of accomplish the same amount of work. >> Do you think that that happens here? Is
[00:21:25] that is there a risk that we have a three-day work week and we're just still growing at two and a half%. Yeah, that's a great qu or will we find new things and this is where the excitement at least I have for what the real impact of AI would be is instead of just thinking about hey it has helped me augment some workflow or simplify something that's happening today is it inventing new things uh is it speeding up drug
[00:21:52] discovery um is it taking the u I don't know let's again go back to my example of okay the working capital management of a small business has become so much more efficient uh that suddenly it's no longer just oh I have an ERP or a QuickBooks like thing but I truly am making decisions based on the ability to introspect my invoices my emails and what have you and some somehow optimize my working capital that's productivity
[00:22:21] that didn't exist and so I do hope that we will start seeing GDP growth which we did see in the industrial era um during the first phase of it. >> Yeah. >> Right. So, so that I think is what is needed, right? Which is in order for all of this to play out quite frankly, we do need to see at least 7 8% GDP growth that is real and that's broad-based. >> What's the what business is Microsoft in in relation to AI? Obviously, Azure has
[00:22:52] been crushing it. you're turning away customers uh and you're doing $175 billion in capex buildout, but your capex is far below what Meta is doing, far below what Google's doing. They're doing secondary raises and raising debt, 350 billion. The Frontier Labs are spending 500 billion. You were so early to the party with the precient open AI investment, but then co-pilot didn't exactly land. I don't think it didn't
[00:23:18] get great reviews. You don't have a frontier model. What's the business? Please come back. [laughter] >> No, but what's the business here? What's the >> Do you need to have a frontier model? >> Did Did we tell you there was one journalist on the panel? [laughter] >> No, no, no. It's I mean I mean it sincerely because I'm just curious. You're a great strategist. We know that about you. Microsoft missed the mobile
[00:23:40] revolution. >> Is Microsoft going to miss the AI revolution? You don't have a frontier model? Because I always found it perplexing that you didn't. And what's the strategy there in all seriousness? Like do you think open source is going to win? you should have that play. >> Yeah. So, let me walk you uh through the sort of where we are and what we're up to on each of these. By the way, on the capex side and the buildout side, we
[00:23:59] started early. So we if you sort of cumulatively look um it's a good I'm not sort of saying you know right right now speaking about a lot of capex is not a feature it's a bug but that [laughter] said but if you really go actually add up the math uh given when we started because we started multiple years before people woke up to even actually needing to build and so that's kind of one aspect of it. The other aspect of it is
[00:24:23] we are calibrating our capex in such a way that we don't we don't want to build for one or two customers right so we want to build for the long tail right because that's I think most important and that's I mean that if you're a hyperscaler you're not a supplier to two model companies that's not a business uh you have to sort of basically build a system that is great for lots of third parties uh and our own one in that
[00:24:46] context we're pretty thrilled with the progress we're making uh with even copilot if you sort of look at the subscriber numbers we gave which is this is goes back in fact to Chamat's fundamental point which is these are real enterprises using it for real workflows u and the fact that we now have 30 plus million not over forum remember the total knowledge worker base right where most people talk about 3 billion people 4 billion people on the
[00:25:09] internet the entire office 365 or Microsoft 365 is the the the sort of the standard when it comes to knowledge work there's 450 million that's including all students in the world >> oh wow >> right So when we talk like the market quote unquote as defined is maybe 300 uh 250 even of real enterprise users and of that we've got the penetration of close to 30 million on that and it's growing and so on. The aspect on the model side
[00:25:37] is we're thrilled about obviously our investment in open AAI the access we have to their IP which we have for a long time we're going to use that but we are well on our way building our MAI models right if you look at it we have a flash cyber model that you know with our harness orchestrating other models outperforms um on cyber gym even a mythos uh same thing we're seeing in coding same thing we're seeing in uh knowledge work right
[00:26:04] So our goal is to basically hill climb from the bottom by the way uh not distilling anything. So from the very bottom using our RLES our data uh and then also have a differentiated position with enterprises going back to addressing some of the things that they want which is hey can I have the weights can I have the weights that I can then add to my knowledge uh these are the things that we will do with our foundation. Your best advice I think to
[00:26:31] enterprises is AI sovereignty is important. Putting your data into a frontier model probably not a good idea and then you're going to be that harness for them to to help them. So my implement my advice is more like use all but be independent of all. So for example my asset test is you should always eval that matter to you right. So what's the outcome you want? you should go run that outcome through all the models. Then
[00:27:00] here's the test I would do. I would pull out a model and see whether I can retain the eval. If I can't, that means you really are dependent on something that may or may not be yours. >> Right. >> Right. That's so so my fundamental enterprise architecture would say you should have a model system that fundamentally allows you to be able to continuously hill climb on your own on eval uh while using all models closed open u
[00:27:30] if you want you can even fine-tune any of these models but you can even substitute models >> s just to build on Jason's question you had this um incredible moment I think we put it here where you said you know we're good for our 80 billion. But just to expand the question, um there's effectively this sort of bank of AI that has emerged and there's this financing mechanism that just is so important to the entire ecosystem and now broadly to
[00:27:55] the entire economy. But you've been very disciplined. You have an enormous balance sheet. You're also an investment grade issuer. So you could do what Jensen did, but you've taken a very different capital allocation approach, much larger bets, very concentrated, and you've kind of stayed into your own ecosystem. just talk us through your mindset as a capital allocator at Microsoft and that balance sheet. Yeah.
[00:28:16] So the way I'm sort of looking at our book of business whether it's the hypers scale our model or our app tier and the shape of the demand um and then what's the way to build out for it. And so if you think about these assets right there are two classes of it. There are the long lead um long duration assets like the the land power cold shell let's call it. Then there is the kit. the kit is the short-term uh asset uh that you can
[00:28:47] much more you know uh be demand driven in other words right I have to forecast let's say two years three year out demand and then and then also >> the kit means the racks the chips >> the racks the chips and what have you and that's 60% of the cost or what have you right so therefore so what we do is we go build as much um we lease we even rent now right now we're even renting quite a bit because we kind of were
[00:29:10] short on supply uh But the overall goal is to build more lease some and then if really need to surge we will even rent that's kind of on the on the on the uh assets and then the chips themselves we will try to be first of all make sure that we're matching demand and as I said my goal is not to have just two customers three customers uh it's great to have openi being one of our largest customers it's great that they're
[00:29:39] growing uh but we need more uh is the kit over earning right now and do do we need is the is the industry pushing for diversification more silicon more memory more vendors >> yeah what's happening is the workloads that are now at scale uh they obviously grew up from what GPUs were there but now the the shape is so well understood uh that you're able to optimize for a very different world right So you can sort of start building
[00:30:14] >> um and saying well you know there are these multiple phases in um an inference or a training phase so why not build silicon that's optimized for these uh and that's just going to lead to a systems architecture that I think is going to by definition have a lot more uh diversity uh I mean I know you have Jensen coming he himself if you look at his own architecture is changing quite drastically >> quite drastically
[00:30:38] >> um and so I think that there is going to be a lot more choice even there in that layer. So ours we have Jensen stuff which is I think our primary thing. We have our own uh OpenAI is building their chip so that's also going to be there. AMD is in there. So we I I my thing is to run whether it's the OpenAI models, the anthropic models or our own models on a heterogeneous kit. >> Sax I want to let you get in here before
[00:31:00] we run out of time. >> Yeah. So you know we've heard now from the the various frontier lab leaders Sam Dario Elon Demis that we need to prioritize alignment like we're talking predictability reliability robustness uh as opposed to maybe just say raw raw power. Do you think the Chinese labs will follow suit? I think that that's the dialogue um that is I think should be prioritized right so because at some level my own premise
[00:31:28] would be that that China should also deeply care uh about the same safety concerns if the United States uh cares about them right why should it be different for them it's not like they won't have the same hacking problem >> uh it's not as if uh they don't want to make sure that their citizens um are benefiting from AI just like we will want our citizens to benefit from AI. So I think that there's a possibility of
[00:32:01] international norms around it. If we really are concrete about what's the risk, why is this risk so idiosyncratic that the only people who are worried about it is the Americans. Uh it doesn't make sense, right? It's not like a thing that is sort of said, "Oh, I'm going to only show up in the United States. I'm going to be something. If it is going to go wrong, it's going to go wrong everywhere at the same time." So I think
[00:32:23] the Chinese should care. I mean they're they are a superpower. >> Well that's you use the word idiosyncratic and I think that is the right word is I don't think we know yet is this um you know conversation we're having in the US over the past week. Is it idiosyncratic to us because we have you know the strong I guess you could say doomer type uh school of thought or is it something that the rest of the world will basically feel as well?
[00:32:48] >> It's a great question >> and if they do then presumably they'd want to act on it as well. Yeah, I I just feel my my take there is that we are ahead >> and we are who we are which is we argue we sort of we compete uh we are more transparent which is all by the way virtues as far as I'm concerned so therefore the fact that this debate is happening here the world will be better off for it right so to some degree us