[00:00:00] All right, everybody, welcome back to the All In interview series. I am thrilled, really thrilled because Saronic is a defense company that has been doing amazing work and we are so lucky to have the co-founders here on the program. Welcome to the program, Dino Mavrukas. How are you, sir? >> Doing well. Thanks for having us. >> And your co-founder here, Vib Alka car. Let's talk a little bit about Saronic. And we're going to get into everything,
[00:00:27] but you were in the news. You were in the news because you're making autonomous ships and one of these was used recently in the Strait of Hormuz, I understand. >> I'm going all [singing] in. >> [music] >> As your wealth grows, have you noticed how much more complex things get between investments, tax strategy, and estate planning? Managing it all is a full-time job that you didn't ask for. Creative Planning can help. Their coordinated
[00:00:54] team of investment managers, CPAs, and affiliated estate attorneys can do much of the heavy lifting so you don't have to. Creative Planning, where wealth works together. Go to creativeplanning.com/allin. >> I'm going all in. >> I got to start there, Dino. Tell us about the mission. Tell us what happened. This is the first time an autonomous ship has ever rescued folks in the field and then we'll get back into your history and everything,
[00:01:22] but I think that we got to start off with this story cuz it's incredible. >> It It's just a huge story and I look I can't get into too many specifics of the operation and the mission for for obvious reasons, but before we get into what it means for the country, what it means for our company, I mean, without saying the most important thing is that those two pilots came home safely regardless of how they got there, right? Now, what we were able
[00:01:47] to demonstrate through this partnership with the Navy like for us it the Navy actually trusted us in this moment. Lives are on the line. We're going to send this autonomous platform to go and rescue these folks. This is not a patrol, this is not maritime domain awareness, this is the highest stakes of the highest stakes. There's downed American pilots in the Straits of Hormuz and they're like Corsair, which you actually see right
[00:02:11] over my right shoulder, which is our 24-ft fully autonomous speedboat for tho- for those that that don't know. Um he said we're going to use that to rescue the pilots. And that's that's actually like a milestone moment for the country. And I can tell you I'll tell you a personal story firsthand of kind of what this means. But you know this, like leaving people behind in the US military just it's not a thing. Like the
[00:02:34] US military does not do it. Right? Like I was in the Navy SEAL teams for 11 years from 2004 to 2015. Uh my last 5 years were on SEAL Team 6. I personally experienced 2005, there were four SEALs trapped on a mountainside in Afghanistan, and the helicopter got shou- got shot down while going to rescue them. So what we were able to prove in this moment was that you can go and rescue people without putting additional
[00:03:05] soldiers in harm's way. That's that's the impact of what this had. That's what it means for the country. And for our company, it was just an extremely proud moment where the Navy trusted us in this high-stakes environment. >> Absolutely incredible. And obviously thank you for your service. I and I know you can't get into too many details, but I've been reading all about it. And I got to wonder when when these two
[00:03:28] pilots did they know that this was an autonomous ship? When the ship comes rolling up and they're like somebody sent them a message, "Hey, you're going to get picked up by the autonomous ship. Grab the side of it. Climb on board." Like what's the protocol for the autonomous ship picking up two folks? Are they swimming out to it? Like I just got to get a little color on this before it becomes a movie. >> I mean it's the first time that it that
[00:03:50] it happened, right? And when a ship when a boat pulls up to you and there's nobody on it, you know, you can very quickly deduce that it's fully that it's an autonomous boat. And you know, these pilots were in the water for I don't even know how long. They're in a completely contested environment. We're in a conflict with Iran. They're in the Straits of Hormuz, and we can go through the dynamic there. But, they looked at this platform and
[00:04:13] said that that's my way home, right? That that's how I get out of here. >> I love it. All right, let's step back a bit here. You're a Navy SEAL. Vib, you've worked in this space for a while, and you previously worked at Anduril, I understand. The mission, as I understand it, for the company is to greatly increase our ability in America to produce ships. And for people who don't know, the amount of tonnage, the number of ships that we're
[00:04:45] able to make in America and most Western countries is very low. But, there's an adversary in the Pacific who is able to produce a lot of ships. It's known as the Chinese Communist Party. So, maybe from first principles, you could just explain what you're building and why it's important, and just how insane the incompetence of the West in terms of building ships has become. I mean, we are really bad at making ships right
[00:05:13] now. Am I correct? >> We're beyond bad. Let me I'll take a step back and just kind of highlight where we're at, and then I'll let Vib go through what we're doing about it, how how we're changing that dynamic. But, Jason, what you were saying, right? Just to put it in context, the United States can build 100,000 gross tons of ships every year. Gross ton is this volumetric measure of ship. So, if you build, you
[00:05:38] know, a 200-ft ship, that's different than an 800-ft ship, but let's compare apples to apples. 100,000 gross tons. The Chinese, which you referencing, can build 23 million gross tons. So, they can outbuild the US 230 to 1. And it wasn't always the case, right? 30 years ago, the Chinese didn't have this capability. They had 5% of the world's shipbuilding capacity. Today, they have 57% of the world's shipbuilding capacity.
[00:06:09] And actually, that problem's getting worse because the the Communist Party is just constantly subsidizing the entire industry. So, they're undercutting the commercial market on price. They're not just subsidizing the direct cost to build. They're subsidizing raw material and labor costs. So, the ship built in the United States is actually five to six times the cost of that same ship built in China. And so, they keep
[00:06:32] getting more and more orders. So, that number of 57% is just going up. >> How did they get that capability? Is that because as a manufacturer to the world, they needed to ship out products? So, they did this in a commercial way first, or is this always very intentionally, we need to own the South Pacific? >> around the commercial market, and then I'll talk about I want to talk about the status of our Navy. Like, where the
[00:06:57] naval fleet is today, what that means, and then where the Chinese Navy is and where that's going. Because again, 30 years ago, the Chinese Navy was a littoral backwater Navy. Today, they have nuclear submarines, aircraft carriers, and hypersonic missiles. So, there's a massive massive change over the last 30 years. And what's happened in the US shipbuilding industry is completely declined. So, the US naval fleet has 296 ships
[00:07:23] today. There's a congressional mandate, statutory minimum of 355 ships that was set by Congress in 2018. That was 8 years ago. Last year, we built nine ships, but we retired 19 naval vessels. So, we're We're in the wrong the completely wrong direction. The Chinese delivered somewhere in the ballpark of 30 ships. Their fleet size is around 370. They'll be at 450 before you know it. But the commercial market is where that discrepancy lies even
[00:07:56] larger, right? They delivered over 1,000 commercial ships last year. The United States built five. >> Five. 1 2 3 4 5. >> 1 2 3 4 5. One hand. >> Wow. >> So, if a conflict actually kicks off, and we saw this in the US in World War II, where we had the production capacity, where we're building thousands of vessels every year. If a conflict kicks off, that commercial capacity isn't going to go to building cargo containers anymore. It's all going to
[00:08:22] flip to defense capacity, and it's going to be building for what the Chinese Communist Party needs to to win a conflict. And that's what we have to be building towards. That's what we're doing at Saronic. That's why we're thinking, "Okay, how do we build mass? How do we build scale in whatever it is that we do?" >> And so, how do you do it, Vib? I would think, and listen, I'm a neophyte here, but if these are autonomous ships, well,
[00:08:46] you can remove things. Like, you don't need beds. You don't need a commissary, and you don't need latrines. And I don't know what percentage of a Corsair or battleship are there to support humans on the ship. But I got to think it's half the mass of it is to is to keep humans on it. Am I directionally correct? >> I think half is a little half is a little excessive, but >> Okay. >> there's a significant percentage of the
[00:09:12] components, the cost, the labor that actually goes into catering to human beings on board. Um I would say at a high level, you know, you're really reducing the complexity of the entire product, right? Um you don't need to worry about a separate electrical system for humans. You don't need to worry about, as we mentioned, doors, bathrooms, stairs, etc. Um and then at the end of the day, you can actually start to end-to-end optimize a lot of
[00:09:33] different things. So, even if you look at Corsair, for example, you know, if you were to buy a commercial 24-foot boat, it's unlikely to go 1,000 nautical miles. Um it's also unlikely to drive and have the control authority of the boat that we built here because you don't have to again you don't have to worry about, you know, a person feeling, you know, you know, taking shots in the middle of the ocean. Yeah. Um and so you can actually optimize
[00:09:57] across a bunch of different areas. Naval architecture, the speed, range, and payload of the craft itself, and then again reduce a lot of the complexity where you're removing subsystems that are meant for humans. >> Yeah, and the Corsair, which is my favorite ship just based on the name, I believe from my research this may it was originally meant like a pirate ship or a privateering ship, but it's is it now standard lingo that that's a
[00:10:19] 24-foot boat and and has a certain profile, do you know? Is that Is that how these designations come about, the names of these ships? >> I mean, I wouldn't say that Corsair is now universal 24-foot autonomous surface vessel. It's a name of our product lines and we chose it very purposefully and we chose all our names purposefully. Even the name of the company, I mean, we were talking about, you know, our Greek
[00:10:41] heritage before the show and where that came from. You know, the Saronic Gulf is a Gulf off the coast of Athens where the Battle of Salamis happened. It's one of the most famous naval battles in history. It came after the Battle of Thermopylae or the famous stand of the spar 300 Spartans and it was the naval battle between the Greeks and the Persians where the Greeks were wildly unmatched. The Persians had much, much larger ships.
[00:11:07] They had a much larger fleet and the Greeks were able to lure them into this narrow strait and used smaller, more maneuverable products to ultimately defeat the Persians. >> Now, cost is part of this in terms of these ships in the field and the number of ships. My understanding of our contemporary China is that they don't build a lot of big ships. They build a lot of ships. So, they've got a lot of smaller and and very varied number of
[00:11:35] ships, if I'm correct there, then the cost becomes the issue because building a bunch of aircraft carriers, I keep hearing that supersonics are going to take out all these uh aircraft carriers in the first 15 minutes. Viv, is is that true what we hear that, "Hey, we need smaller ships, faster ships?" And what is the cost of something like, you know, the Corsair that you used on this incredible mission? >> Yeah, I would say, you know, at a high
[00:11:58] level, the goal is mass, right? Um like large-scale attritable mass. And yeah, if if an aircraft carrier takes 10 years to build and 13 billion dollars, like you're not really achieving that. Um I think there's always going to be like kind of a role and responsibility for for a craft like that. Um but ultimately, you're right. Like if you're big and and, you know, very obvious to find and you can find you from space,
[00:12:19] etc., um you know, it's it's a real risk. When you reduce, you know, the the overall cost of like just doing things in the ocean, right? Like that's ultimately where the autonomous piece comes in. Um you can deploy at scale. You can monitor a large a larger body of water with less people. Um and ultimately, what you're what you're really getting to is removing people from harm's way, right? Um so, what when we think about designing and kind of
[00:12:46] thinking through the price points of these things, the comparison to mancraft isn't really um necessarily even comparable as you get into larger ships, right? Um for for us, it's really a question of like what is the cost that you would typically have to use humans for and how much is that actually being reduced by having a large autonomous fleet? >> Corsair's a million bucks or something, do you know? The the Corsair costs about
[00:13:08] a million? >> Yeah, I want to go back to we'll get that. I want to go back to one thing you said earlier and it's like China's building both very large ships and a lot of ships. They're They're doing it all, right? And when we think about, okay, how do you actually change the paradigm for the US Navy? It's let's actually boil it down to unit economics. Let's think about this like a commercial company. How do you that
[00:13:32] mentioned like payloads? What are you actually moving on the ocean? One of the most important metrics is VLS tubes. So vertical launch systems. It's basically how many big Tomahawk missiles can you carry on a ship? It's how much firepower are you fielding? So let's use an example of that, right? A destroyer, naval destroyer costs about $3 billion. >> 3 billion? >> 3 billion. And I'm not even getting into the sustainment and maintenance costs
[00:13:58] over the life cycle of the destroyer. I'm just talking about what it costs to buy. If we do that, it's 10 10 billion over 30 40 years. $3 billion, 6 to 8 years to make. You carry you can field about 96 VLS tubes. So I'm going to round up. I'm going to make that 100 for easy math. So on average, you're fielding somewhere between 10 to 15 VLS tubes per year at a cost of 30 million per tube. Marauder, I won't give you the exact price or
[00:14:29] cost, but can reduce that cost by a significant amount, but we're building 20 Marauders for we're going to be building 20 Marauders per year at our shipyard in Louisiana. Right? So now you can field we can carry the equivalent of 16 VLS tubes on the back of that 180 ft fully autonomous ship. So now you can field 320 VLS tubes per year as opposed to 15, and you could do it at a fraction of the cost. This is how you actually save the
[00:15:01] taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars, and you get more capability into the field faster. >> I mean, that's just extraordinary thinking about it. What do you lose by not having humans on it? You know, are we going to be faced with a moment in time where these are kind of like drones, you know, where there's no pilots. They're just pilots in a shipping container dropped somewhere either, you know, in the middle of
[00:15:26] America and doing it remote like we've done. And is that the future of warfare with these ships or and what do you lose when you don't have a team there on the boat? And what is the criticism valid or invalid that people have of unmanned ships? >> Well, I'm going to let him talk about the way that we're using software because I think the the criticism to your question is, well, what happens if we're in the middle of the ocean and the ship breaks
[00:15:52] down, who's going to fix it? It's not It's not that we don't need this technology. It's folks that aren't used to technology saying, oh, how's the technology actually going to work? And that's what we're proving out every single day. To your point of like, what do you lose by not having people on them? Look, it all it all boils down to the mission. Right? And this is why we partner so closely with the Navy. This is why we
[00:16:15] work with actual operators is like, what are you using? What are you delivering? If the mission is long-range fires, we're packing a bunch of VLS tubes on the back of Marauder. You actually don't lose anything. Right? You're just delivering those capabilities into the field while keeping people out of harm's way. And that's a very, very important part of the equation. But if our ships, let's be clear, like if our boats and ships aren't
[00:16:39] accomplishing the mission, then they're not relevant. They're not going to be used in the first place. And there is going to be some mix. I don't know what that mix is. I don't think anybody really knows what that mix is of manned and unmanned ships. So, what you're going to see in the Navy is like a hybrid Navy. So, the things that you're missing from having people on the ships forward deployed decision makers in the