[00:14:29] cost, but can reduce that cost by a significant amount, but we're building 20 Marauders for we're going to be building 20 Marauders per year at our shipyard in Louisiana. Right? So now you can field we can carry the equivalent of 16 VLS tubes on the back of that 180 ft fully autonomous ship. So now you can field 320 VLS tubes per year as opposed to 15, and you could do it at a fraction of the cost. This is how you actually save the
[00:15:01] taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars, and you get more capability into the field faster. >> I mean, that's just extraordinary thinking about it. What do you lose by not having humans on it? You know, are we going to be faced with a moment in time where these are kind of like drones, you know, where there's no pilots. They're just pilots in a shipping container dropped somewhere either, you know, in the middle of
[00:15:26] America and doing it remote like we've done. And is that the future of warfare with these ships or and what do you lose when you don't have a team there on the boat? And what is the criticism valid or invalid that people have of unmanned ships? >> Well, I'm going to let him talk about the way that we're using software because I think the the criticism to your question is, well, what happens if we're in the middle of the ocean and the ship breaks
[00:15:52] down, who's going to fix it? It's not It's not that we don't need this technology. It's folks that aren't used to technology saying, oh, how's the technology actually going to work? And that's what we're proving out every single day. To your point of like, what do you lose by not having people on them? Look, it all it all boils down to the mission. Right? And this is why we partner so closely with the Navy. This is why we
[00:16:15] work with actual operators is like, what are you using? What are you delivering? If the mission is long-range fires, we're packing a bunch of VLS tubes on the back of Marauder. You actually don't lose anything. Right? You're just delivering those capabilities into the field while keeping people out of harm's way. And that's a very, very important part of the equation. But if our ships, let's be clear, like if our boats and ships aren't
[00:16:39] accomplishing the mission, then they're not relevant. They're not going to be used in the first place. And there is going to be some mix. I don't know what that mix is. I don't think anybody really knows what that mix is of manned and unmanned ships. So, what you're going to see in the Navy is like a hybrid Navy. So, the things that you're missing from having people on the ships forward deployed decision makers in the
[00:17:02] environment, you can actually have out there on manned ships, but you're using unmanned ships to put into combat areas and conflict areas to keep those people very safe. >> Fab, take us through the production of these. How do you achieve speed at it? You know, uh friend of the pod Elon Musk with the Teslas, over time, he eventually built the full stack. In the beginning, if you had a Tesla, you would look at the the shifter and you'd be like, "Hey,
[00:17:30] that looks like my Mercedes." And that's because they had their steering column from Mercedes, one of the early investors. The HVAC was from somebody else. But eventually, he had materials coming in one side of the factory, cars coming out the other, and he made every single thing in that car. He was now no longer dependent on any third-party manufacturers or a supply chain, you know, and famously the HVAC, I think, in the Model 3 and Y when
[00:17:55] it came out, reduced massively the drain on the battery, right? So, it's purpose-built for that mission. So, I'm assuming you're doing that from first principles, but what what's the secret to this rapid production and lower-cost production? >> Yeah, listen, I think there's, you know, within the shipbuilding industry at large, there's a bunch of different challenges of of why the production isn't as high as it should be. And one
[00:18:16] of those core reasons, and the Navy's talked about this extensively, is is investing in the supply chain. Right? Um when you don't when you only build five commercial ships a year, your genset manufacturers, the marine engine manufacturers, also don't have to produce at a very high rate. So, one of the things that we get the luxury of doing, um by being vertically integrated, is that we get to work with these manufacturers directly, do
[00:18:37] non-recurring engineering work, invest in really digitizing a lot of the components that historically have been very analog, right? Um you know, you asked earlier like, "What do people What do the people do on the ships? Like, what are they going to do if if the ships are autonomous?" Well, when you think about, you know, Dino mentioned the life cycle of these ships are 30 years, you think about a ship that was
[00:18:54] built 30 years ago, you know, you have people that are doing extremely manual things in the engine room that today should be extremely trivial to automate through software. Um and so, a lot of that work actually gets completely absorbed by the software stack, and so you don't have to worry about it. Um and as we choose components, we invest in the supply chain, we invest invest in the industrial base, we actually help bring
[00:19:14] all of these analog components that for a long time were, you know, meant to be operated by humans, we give them software APIs, we make sure that they can be controlled by, you know, MCPs or software stack somewhere else and can be, you know, remotely accessed and whatnot. Um >> So, the complexity is going to go down massively when you're building one of these, yeah? >> Absolutely, yeah. And and you know, frankly, I don't think that the person
[00:19:35] who's sitting in the engine room is super thrilled about it anyway. >> No, not a great day. >> You're actually changing the um you're democratizing the decision-making, right? Like now there's going to be you have more mass out in the ocean, more sailors are going to be making decisions about what those what that mass is going to be doing and where assets are going to be instead of worrying about, you know, coolant pressure in an engine,
[00:19:53] right? Um and so, you know, when we think about the the actual design, there's there's a lot of different variables there. There's some components that are commercial off-the-shelf, right? Elon in the early days um from a compute perspective, they had to invest in ASICs, right? The compute stack wasn't there to run, you know, large models and and run inference and power budgets that they wanted to. In 2026, it's a totally different game,
[00:20:15] right? Um and so, there's there's a lot of different parts of the supply chain that, you know, sometimes we're looking at, you know, investing in the industrial base and making sure that, you know, our engine manufacturers and genset manufacturers are keeping up. Um on the other side, there's there's particular components that we're like, "Hey, the marine industry actually hasn't had this level of investment in
[00:20:34] in a long time, so we're going to have to build this in-house." Um you know, a couple of examples around that are related to a lot of electronics related to the sensors and compute. Um but, you know, bunch of different things there that that help us build and assemble quickly. >> I'm going all in. >> Starting business usually means juggling a bunch of different services just to look legit. Not anymore. With Northwest
[00:20:59] Registered Agent, you get a complete business identity all in one place. A business address, domain, website, phone number, and more with privacy protection built in from day one. Don't spend hundreds or thousands on services you can get from Northwest for free. Visit northwestregisteredagent.com/allinfree and start using free resources to build your business today. >> Let's talk a little bit about Andino on
[00:21:27] the business side, how you work with the Department of War, formerly known as the Department of Defense. Emil Michaels and a bunch of the folks over there are really focused on getting startups, essentially, like you are, more contracts. But, you also are moving out, I assume, of this cost-plus world and you're just figuring out, "Hey, what what's the right price for this?" And take us inside that paradigm shift. You
[00:21:54] have these primes and then you have these upstarts. And it seems like based on history, the incumbents sometimes don't take this lying down. So, take us inside the paradigm shift from cost-plus to what these, I guess they call the new primes, like yourself and Anduril, are doing. >> Yep. And I'll just define cost-plus everybody's listening. Basically, means "Hey, we're we're going to go build you something, Mr. Government, and however
[00:22:23] long that takes, however much it costs, you're just going to pay us 10 to 15% on top of that." So, I'm actually incentivized, and I'm not saying there's malicious intent, but I'm incentivized to make it take longer and cost more because if it costs a hundred million dollars, well, then I only make 15 million dollars. But, if it costs a billion dollars, then as a company, I make a hundred and fifty million dollars. So, there's this perverse
[00:22:47] incentive to drive up costs. Now, that's not the only reason the industry is where it is today, but we're we're very encouraged by the push from the administration to adopt things at at speed and scale and to do that quickly and to do that differently, and to move away from cost plus. You had it like we invest our own capital. Today we're we're just about 4 years old. We've raised 2 and 1/2 billion dollars in private capital.
[00:23:14] We're pouring that into R&D. I remember when we decided to build Marada, again 180 foot ship. Viv and I were talking and he was like who who's crazy enough to go and build a ship on IRAD? And he was like well well we are. Cuz that's what the country needs. That's what it demands. That's what's we're going to go do. And our investors are giving us the capital to go do it. They're actually entrusting us with that
[00:23:39] capital. That's the reverse of what's happening in the large primes where their investors are kind of demanding share buybacks. They're saying give us our capital back. So the country very much needs us to build for needs companies like us to build for the future. Um and when you look at what the administration is doing even just in shipbuilding, just recognizing that shipbuilding is a critical strategic industry, right? The president one of
[00:24:04] the first things he did was put out the maritime executive order. That was followed with the maritime action plan, right? There's ships act sitting in Congress. You had the secretary of war give a whole speech on defense acquisition reform talking about how we're going to push the department to be better, to move faster, to work with companies like us that are building on firm fixed price contracts that are focused on delivering at speed and scale
[00:24:31] and driving down cost for the taxpayer. So all of that is extremely encouraging, but I want to be I also want to be clear here on the flip side. We're in the early days, Jason. Like >> Yeah. >> very early days. When you look at the overall defense Department of War's budget 1% 1% goes to autonomous systems. That's not nearly enough. Make that 5%, make that to I don't know the right mix, but it needs to go up and it needs to go
[00:25:02] up quickly. >> I'll I'll just add one more thing that um that you know, historically shipbuilding, you know, the design is bifurcated from the builder, right? So, the design someone gets paid to do the design um and the ground up general assembly and all that. Like it's handed off to a totally different person to go and build a ship. Um and I think there's a statistic out there that's like 70% of sequence critical components on on some
[00:25:24] Navy ships are sole source suppliers, like single source suppliers. Um and so, to Dino's point, it's not just that you're incentivized to to take longer, it's that you're not incentivized to change that necessarily um because you know that you're still going to get paid. Um whereas like from our perspective, when you own the design, you own the shipyard, you know, software engineers, shipbuilders, naval architects, and welders can all all sit
[00:25:44] down and eat lunch together in the yard. Um there's end-to-end optimizations that you get that, you know, the the system from a from a historical perspective just wasn't set up to gain. >> Yeah, let's do a little uh look at what happened in the Strait of Hormuz. Uh we weren't able to control it completely. Doesn't seem like anybody in history has been able to uh control it. If we were to fast forward and you had your entire fleet,
[00:26:09] you had let's assume uh not unlimited, but massive capacity, how would you would you be able to secure something like the Strait of Hormuz with these autonomous vehicles? And what might that look like? Take us into a, you know, scenario 5 years from now. What would it take? >> That's the type of scenario that that we're building for. I think before talking about the scenario, let's talk about the Strait of Hormuz itself,
[00:26:36] right? The environment, the part of the world, like what neighborhood is it in, right? It it connects, so you have the Persian Gulf, which is 200 miles wide, which narrows down to a 20-mile wide strip, which is the Strait of Hormuz, and then it connects to the Indian Ocean and connects these large oil-producing countries to global markets. On the one side of the Persian Gulf, you have you know, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
[00:27:01] UAE, Qatar, and Oman. And on the other side of the Persian Gulf, the north side is all controlled by Iran. So now, Iran is saying, "Well, how how are we going to disrupt traffic in the Strait of Hormuz?" Well, it's only a 20-mi wide stretch. I can use missiles, I can use fast attack vessels, I can use naval mines, I can use cheap drones, cuz I don't have a large distance to cover. I can launch these things anywhere from
[00:27:26] shore. So, it becomes this completely chaotic environment that sending in naval destroyers into or trying to get commercial ships past becomes extremely dangerous. So, using large numbers of autonomous vessels, you can combat these threats in completely different ways. You can offer scale, persistence, and risk reduction in ways that, you know, manned vessels just can't. And again, won't get into too many of the specifics
[00:27:50] on the types of operations that we're building towards, but autonomy is a way to counter these effects these these um these effects that are over well or like really aren't meant to be countered by traditional manned ships alone. We can counter that with scale and technology and keep people out of harm's way. >> Well, you have some small ships. Yeah, you got the Cutlass and you got the Spyglass in this uh you know, build out. Those are 6-ft,
[00:28:20] 15-ft, or whatever. >> We actually started with those and I and I'll give you an interesting story. We actually don't build those aren't we haven't productized those. Those were great subscale demonstrators, but our real flagship product is Corsair. And when you talk about again the the scenario in the Strait of Hormuz and what type of volume can we bring there? Like it's not only 5 years in the future, we could build 2,000 Corsair per
[00:28:43] year right now at our manufacturing facility in Austin. So, I I know you live in Austin. We'd love to show you around. When you see it, when you see it, it actually comes to life. You're like, "Oh, wait. You can actually build thousands of these vessels every single year." >> How many would you need? A thousand? 5,000 in the Strait of Hormuz? >> I don't think you need It's a 20-mi wide strait. >> So, you're just going to And and they
[00:29:07] This is their offensive strategy. They have these speedboats that they use. I don't know what they're called, but >> They call them fast attack vessels. >> Fast attack vessels. These guys essentially are kamikaze, right? They just zip in, you know, no regard for safety and their life, etc. And and they will attack. >> They're using fast attack vessels. They're using cheap drones. So, you have to be able to have counter UAS
[00:29:29] capabilities. They're They're using mines. They're just floating mines into the strait without regard for what those mines may set off. So, it's a really complicated environment that you need to bring a lot of capabilities towards. >> Yeah, but it sounds like they've with artificial intelligence, which is the next card that I think is going to turn over, you put these corsairs out there, could they with AI be able to, you know,
[00:29:56] be using satellite data from Planet or whoever's providing it to just or a military satellites and just zip out there and know say somebody's putting out some mines. Hey, somebody's putting out some of these fast attack vehicles. Just intercept them. And now they have an actual cost, human life, and a limited amount of resources. And hey, we're America and we have you guys building ships at scale. They don't have
[00:30:20] this ability to build AI-based ships. So, talk about what AI on these ships could do eventually. >> Yeah, so I would say I would say today, you know, there's a bunch of different, you know, machine learning applications that run on our boat today. Um there's heavy amounts of compute on all of our crafts um that allows people to have tons of capability, whether it's, you know, the navigation and kind of the autopilot or self-driving of the craft