[00:28:20] 15-ft, or whatever. >> We actually started with those and I and I'll give you an interesting story. We actually don't build those aren't we haven't productized those. Those were great subscale demonstrators, but our real flagship product is Corsair. And when you talk about again the the scenario in the Strait of Hormuz and what type of volume can we bring there? Like it's not only 5 years in the future, we could build 2,000 Corsair per
[00:28:43] year right now at our manufacturing facility in Austin. So, I I know you live in Austin. We'd love to show you around. When you see it, when you see it, it actually comes to life. You're like, "Oh, wait. You can actually build thousands of these vessels every single year." >> How many would you need? A thousand? 5,000 in the Strait of Hormuz? >> I don't think you need It's a 20-mi wide strait. >> So, you're just going to And and they
[00:29:07] This is their offensive strategy. They have these speedboats that they use. I don't know what they're called, but >> They call them fast attack vessels. >> Fast attack vessels. These guys essentially are kamikaze, right? They just zip in, you know, no regard for safety and their life, etc. And and they will attack. >> They're using fast attack vessels. They're using cheap drones. So, you have to be able to have counter UAS
[00:29:29] capabilities. They're They're using mines. They're just floating mines into the strait without regard for what those mines may set off. So, it's a really complicated environment that you need to bring a lot of capabilities towards. >> Yeah, but it sounds like they've with artificial intelligence, which is the next card that I think is going to turn over, you put these corsairs out there, could they with AI be able to, you know,
[00:29:56] be using satellite data from Planet or whoever's providing it to just or a military satellites and just zip out there and know say somebody's putting out some mines. Hey, somebody's putting out some of these fast attack vehicles. Just intercept them. And now they have an actual cost, human life, and a limited amount of resources. And hey, we're America and we have you guys building ships at scale. They don't have
[00:30:20] this ability to build AI-based ships. So, talk about what AI on these ships could do eventually. >> Yeah, so I would say I would say today, you know, there's a bunch of different, you know, machine learning applications that run on our boat today. Um there's heavy amounts of compute on all of our crafts um that allows people to have tons of capability, whether it's, you know, the navigation and kind of the autopilot or self-driving of the craft
[00:30:42] itself, or compute for payloads, whether that's counter UAS, as Dino mentioned, or or a bunch of other things, really. Um there's a variety of different mission sets. The end state here is that, you know, you have a distributed fleet, you know, across the ocean that, you know, invariably like cuz the ocean is a treacherous place like by default. Without war zone, like the ocean's still bad. Um you know, salt water hits your
[00:31:04] antennas, you lose you lose comms. Uh so, there's a bunch of different radio communications on this. There's a bunch of different sensors. Um all of those things kind of are networked together with ML, with a bunch of different software uh components of the software stack, to make sure that you can basically translate intent from a commander or sailor, and then result in a mission outcome. >> Let's talk, Dino, a little bit about the
[00:31:26] adversary, China, and they have started to put weapons on robots. I'm assuming that they're doing the same if they're willing to put it on a, you know, one of those dog robots, like the Spot robots. They're putting weapons on them. They're demonstrating it. And whatever they're demonstrating, they've already got in production. Let's just call it what it is. And they're not signing some UN treaty to not put autonomous and AI weapons. This
[00:31:51] is a different type of adversary. And I'm sure North Korea and and other bad guys are doing similar things. We have um I believe treaties where we're not allowed to put weapons and use AI-based weapons. Am I correct about that in the West here? >> There's a autonomous weapon system standard called 3009 that basically outlines exactly how AI can be used on an on an autonomous system, yeah. >> Tell us all about that. Like cuz this is
[00:32:18] the RoboCop scenario. This is the robotic soldier or the robotic boat that's able to engage the enemy without a human, you know, if it loses comms, or to do a kamikaze mission, which seems like something we might have to do. These are things we might have to do, Dino, versus the Chinese, cuz they're not signing these treaties. They're not thinking ethically. They are not respecting the Declaration of Human Rights. They've got their own playbook,
[00:32:44] yeah? >> And I think that the important thing to to articulate here is especially when you use the kind of Robocop example and just to kind of quell people's fears a little bit is even in that example where we're sending boats off the off of Taiwan and we're in the Taiwan Strait and they're engaging, we're still using artificial intelligence to bifurcate between an enemy vessel and a friendly vessel, between a non-combatant and a combatant.
[00:33:11] And people are still making the decisions and setting the mission intent. It's just government policy that's setting, "Okay, when are you authorized to engage versus not?" Artificial intelligence actually just gives the military the opportunity to one operate at a greater scale and then operate more efficiently. These aren't robots actually just making decisions on when to go to war or not. >> Got it. So, it says, "Hey, this is a bad
[00:33:36] guy. Hey, our recommendation is to, you know, neutralize it." And then a human has to say, "Okay, neutralize it." But if you're up against an adversary who says, "Hey, no, no, we built this thing. Anybody comes in to the blockade in Taiwan, which, you know, we think is, uh, you know, a pretty significant non-zero probability in our lifetime. If you're up against somebody who says, "I'm just going to have these ships kill
[00:34:02] anything that's not our ship." Period. Full stop. Then we lose, don't we? >> No, because the the technologies that all you're doing is putting policy thresholds and approval thresholds into the technology. There's a real-world scenario where doomsday scenario, we go to World War III, the Taiwan Strait is a complete conflict. Exactly what you said, our commanders are going to make that same judgment. Right? They're going to be like, "Hey,
[00:34:28] if anything, there's no fishing boats out here right now. >> Yeah. >> There's no cruise ships coming through the Panama Canal. >> damage. >> If you're not a If you're not a friendly vessel, you're an enemy vessel, and that's that. And our technology is actually enables that what we were talking about earlier is like the autonomy, the artificial intelligence, and everything else is there, and you're building the policies into the software
[00:34:49] based on government procedures and when those authorizations need to be in place, those authorizations will change based on the threat environment that we're in. >> Is the plan for you to sell to our allies? And what are the rules there? Because it sounds like we need as many ships for our navy as we can get. But if you can get up to capacity, then hey, the French, the Germans, and the English have essentially been just stopped
[00:35:17] making ships, right? And they they they have very deprecated military. It's my understanding is the only people who are really doing a great job at this are the folks in South Korea, which I believe are building but one ship for us. So maybe you could talk about the other top countries in the world, democracies, and our allies, and what their capability is, and then your ability to help arm them and sell to them.
[00:35:38] >> I mean, very very focused on our allies and partners. If you talk to the Department of War, if you talk to the United States Navy, they actually want our allies and partners to have these capabilities as well. This is This is going to be a combined effort, right? We mentioned earlier that China has 57% of the world's shipbuilding capacity. That's not limited to just that one industry. We could go industry by industry and talk
[00:36:02] about their manufacturing might and their manufacturing dominance. Um so you really do need a combined effort. You need our allies and partners to have this technology. We're talking to um our allies in Asia, obviously, and Europe, and in the Middle East right now about getting not only our our products there, but also how do we stand up, you know, domestic production in those countries. How do we give them the
[00:36:26] sovereign capability? How do we have production lines overseas so that they're already forward deployed if we get into a conflict in the first place? >> Pretty amazing stuff and you have an announcement today I understand that we're going to share with the All-In audience for the first time. >> That's right. So, we've been working on Port Arthur for a long time now. So, Port Arthur just for the listeners is our shipyard of the future. This is
[00:36:49] going to bring American ship building back to a place that we haven't seen since World War II. Um to be clear we're already operating a shipyard. We have a shipyard in Franklin, Louisiana. That's where we're building Marada. We're ramping that up to 20 Marada. We can bring that up to 50 Maradas per year every single year. And that is a 100-acre shipyard. What we're doing at Port Arthur is 10Xing that. We're looking at a shipyard
[00:37:16] that is well over 1,000 acres. We've been doing this search for over a year now on what is the ideal location for this shipyard. Where are we going to find the right partner, the right land, the right workforce, the right community to be a part of? Um and we're proud to announce that we found that in Brownsville, Texas. So, we're We're headquartered in Austin. We're going to be basing Port Arthur in Brownsville. We're going to start on a
[00:37:40] 800-acre plot of land, which in and of itself 800 acres is now the largest shipyard in the United States. >> Amazing. >> Just to give you a sense of scale. We have the opportunity over time to scale that to 4,000 acres. We're going to invest billions of dollars into this project. We're going to create 10,000 jobs over the next 10 years. And we're going to bring ship building in this country back again to a place
[00:38:06] that we haven't seen since World War II. And we're just grateful for the partnership from the state, from Governor Abbott, from Cameron County, and then the city and the port of Brownsville for making this happen. >> I mean this is one of the great things Viv about being based in Texas. They let us build things in Texas. Yeah, as a recent resident here, it's pretty amazing to live in a state where the state's like, "What do you
[00:38:29] want to build? How can we help?" as opposed to hey, uh you know, "F off." like they told uh Elon in California and he got the message received reply uh to that lunatic. So, maybe we can talk a little bit about operating Veben Texas and the crazy support you get from Abbott and everybody. >> One of the questions that we used to get like back in the day was, "You guys are a maritime company, there's no water in Austin.
[00:38:53] What are you guys doing there?" Um and I would say like, you know, Austin has this like magical um kind of nexus of both digital and physical labor forces. Like, you can find software talent, you can find AI talent, you can find designers. Um but you can also tap into, you know, the industrial base from San Antonio, from the oil and gas industry in Houston. Um and when you marry those two together, like you can actually
[00:39:14] start to co-design these things across the entire stack, right? I mentioned earlier, like typically ship design and ship build is is totally independent. Um but I mean, with Port Arthur, we get the luxury of like greenfield designing what the the manufacturing plant for ships should look like. Um and so, you can design the you can you can optimize the design of ship for the yard and the design of the yard for
[00:39:36] the ship. And it's very similar to kind of like, you know, how how companies today like do hardware software co-design on chips, right? You design the compiler and they fit together to optimize both for for the other. Um and you we can we have the luxury of being able to do that for for ships here and um I I can't think of a better place to do it than Texas. >> Well, and uh Starbase is right down the block, SpaceX
[00:39:56] obviously. Uh and Elon's made that work and I think it's like a four what maybe four, five, six-hour drive down to the coast, yeah? So, you guys can either zip there on a PJ or you can just drive. So, it's pretty straightforward. >> straightforward. It's easy for logistics. What what SpaceX has did has done in Brownsville is incredible. I think what Brownsville has has done for SpaceX and helping them build out, build
[00:40:18] the community down there. Um we were very impressed, very very excited to be basing Port Alpha there. And look, at the end of the day, it's the people that are going to make this work. It's it's the labor force, it's the workforce. Viv mentioned it earlier, and we can talk about, you know, why the American shipbuilding industry has declined so much, but it's the supply chain and the workforce that has suffered the most. And so,
[00:40:43] like, one of the things we focus on is really, how do we rebuild that workforce? How do we upskill existing talent to advanced manufacturing? How do we take somebody that's building a car at Ford and get them building ships very, very efficiently, very quickly, right? And that all actually all starts with the design. If you design a ship from the ground up from a first principles approach to be more simplistic, to be designed and
[00:41:07] manufactured at scale, then you can put in the training, the work instructions, the processes, and everything else, where hey, let's go make this much faster. Let's train, let's build the workforce. And then, let's be honest, like, you have to make it cool for young people to go work in a shipyard again. You have to You have to pay them good wages. Like, every one of our employees, every welder, every pipefitter,
[00:41:31] um they have good wages, the same benefits as our Silicon Valley software engineers, they have equity in our company. Um they're they're fired up. Like, I mentioned our our shipyard in Louisiana, like, people are fired up down there. And it's not just the workforce, it's the community. Like, some of the some of the stories I hear when I'm down there are like so encouraging. Like, people are like, "I'm wearing my hat in the
[00:41:53] grocery store, and people are coming up to me saying, 'You guys are kicking butt, keep building ships.'" Because nobody else in the country is doing what we're doing. >> And these are great salaries. People are getting paid significant amounts of money, obviously, to work in manufacturing at your company, at down at Starbase. and now you have these two incredible companies. I I don't know if there's any other ones
[00:42:16] in Brownsville, but this is a small community. There's only like 200,000 people down there. This is going to be an incredible boom town. >> Oh, it's going to be incredible. It's going to be awesome. It's going to be awesome. It's going to be incredible. And I mentioned earlier like the cost of building ships in the United States, and the United States just isn't competitive in the commercial market. And again, we can go through the
[00:42:36] specifics and what happened over time. Five to six times the cost of building a ship in China. We think just by investing in product and processes and new shipyards, we can cut the cost of a ship in the United States in half. So, if you have a ship that costs $300 million, we can get that under $150 million. And that's not by simply just paying people less. We're paying people more, but we're investing in our product. We're
[00:43:05] investing in the process. We're designing the product to be built that way in the first place. So, we're making the investments that are needed for long-term sustainability and to rebuild the workforce. >> All right, if people want to come work with you, Vib, how can they apply? They're a career page, and what are you looking for? What what talent do you need to come do this incredibly patriotic duty and go work at Saronic?
[00:43:28] >> Yeah, I mean, saronic.com. We have a careers page. You can you can reach out on Twitter, LinkedIn, whatever you want. We're we're we're hiring pretty aggressively right now. I would say that you know, the biggest thing you know, we look for generally speaking is you know, especially 2026 when you know, ChatGPT and Claude are getting so much better every year. It's pretty important right now to be fairly, you know, neuroplastic.
[00:43:53] You know, be ready to adapt for what the future looks like. Computing is changing. You know, there's there's going to be agents that can help you on the manufacturing floor, too, to assemble faster if you have an issue. There's all these digital systems that are that are kind of changing the paradigm here. I mean, when we first got to Gulf Craft in in down in Louisiana, a lot of the processes were were pretty